% This is the official version. For shorter versions, see directory
% diff.

% http://tinyurl.com/nrhqdxg

% What exactly is Linda's evidence differential compared to
% Betsy -- the analytic expression may help.

\documentclass[11pt]{article}
\usepackage{october}
% For BJPS
% \hyphenpenalty=10000
% \hbadness=10000

\begin{document}
% For BJPS
% \raggedright
% \doublespacing

\title{Augustin's Concessions: A Problem for Indeterminate Credal States}
\author{Stefan Lukits}
\date{}
\maketitle

% \begin{abstract} 
% \end{abstract}

\section{Introduction}
\label{Introduction}

The claim is that rational agents are subject to a norm requiring
sharp credences. I defend this claim in spite of the initially
promising features of indeterminate credal states (from now on
instates) to address problems which sharp credences have as they
reflect the evidence at the foundation of a doxastic state.
Traditionally, Bayesians have maintained that a rational agent, when
holding a credence, holds a sharp credence. It has recently become
popular to drop the requirement for credence functions to be sharp.
There are now Bayesians who permit a rational agent to hold instates
based on incomplete or ambiguous evidence. I will refer to Bayesians
who continue to adhere to the classical theory of sharp credences for
rational agents as \qnull{Laplaceans} (e.g.\ Adam Elga and Roger
White). I will refer to Bayesians who do not believe that a rational
agent's credences are sharp as \qnull{Booleans} (e.g.\ Peter Walley
and James Joyce).\fcut{1}

There is some terminological confusion around the adjectives
\qnull{imprecise,} \qnull{indeterminate,} and \qnull{mushy} credences.
In the following, I will exclusively refer to indeterminate credences
or credal states (abbreviated \qnull{instates}) and mean by them a set
of sharp credence functions (which some Booleans require to be convex)
which it may be rational for an agent to hold within an otherwise
orthodox Bayesian framework.\bcut{1}

Instates represent in one credal state both degree of belief and
properties of the evidence. Instates thus incorporate distinct
features of the doxastic state. Representing multiple features of a
state is not per se a bad thing when we fix the terms of a theory, in
this case the terms of our theory of partial beliefs. In colour
theory, the term \qnull{red} represents both a phenomenological
quality and a neighbourhood on the visible light spectrum. When we say
one thing is more red than another thing, we effectively describe a
relation based on both phenomenological and physical properties.

When we first hear of the advantages of instates, two of them sound
particularly persuasive.

\begin{itemize}
\item \textsc{range} Instates represent the possibility range for
  objective chances.
\item \textsc{incomplete} Instates represent incompleteness or ambiguity
  of the evidence.\bcut{3}
\end{itemize}

Let a \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{x}}}$ be a Bernoulli generator that
produces successes and failures with probability $p_{\mbox{\tiny{x}}}$
for success, labeled $H_{\mbox{\tiny{x}}}$, and
$1-p_{\mbox{\tiny{x}}}$ for failure, labeled $T_{\mbox{\tiny{x}}}$.
Physical coins may serve as examples, if we are willing to set aside
that most of them are approximately fair.

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Range}\label{ex:range} Bob has two Bernoulli Generators in
  his lab, \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{i}}}$ and
  \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{ii}}}$. Bob has a database of
  \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{i}}}$ results and concludes on excellent
  evidence that \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{i}}}$ is fair. Bob has no
  evidence about the bias of \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{ii}}}$. As a
  Boolean, Bob assumes a sharp credence of $\{0.5\}$ for
  $H_{\mbox{\tiny{i}}}$ and an indeterminate credal state of $[0,1]$
  for $H_{\mbox{\tiny{ii}}}$. He feels bad for Larry, his Laplacean
  colleague, who cannot distinguish between the two cases and who must
  assign a sharp credence of $\{0.5\}$ for both $H_{\mbox{\tiny{i}}}$
  and $H_{\mbox{\tiny{ii}}}$.
\end{quotex}

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Incomplete}\label{ex:incomp} Bob has another Bernoulli
  Generator, \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{iii}}}$, in his lab. His
  graduate student has submitted \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{iii}}}$
  to countless experiments and emails Bob the resulting bias, but
  fails to include whether the bias of $2/3$ is in favour of
  $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iii}}}$ or in favour of $T_{\mbox{\tiny{iii}}}$. As
  a Boolean, Bob assumes an indeterminate credal state of $[1/3,2/3]$
  (or $\{1/3,2/3\}$, depending on whether convexity is required) for
  $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iii}}}$. He feels bad for Larry who must assign a
  sharp credence of $\{0.5\}$ for $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iii}}}$ when Larry
  concurrently knows that his credence gets the bias wrong.
\end{quotex}

Against the force of \textsc{range} and \textsc{incomplete}, I
maintain that the Laplacean approach of assigning subjective
probabilities to partitions of the event space (e.g.\ objective
chances) and then aggregating them by David Lewis' summation formula
into a single precise credence function is conceptually tidy and
shares many of the formal virtues of Boolean theories. To put it
provocatively, this paper defends a $0.5$ sharp credence in heads in
all three cases: for a coin of whose bias we are completely ignorant;
for a coin whose fairness is supported by a lot of evidence; and even
for a coin about whose bias we know that it is either 1/3 or 2/3 for
heads. 

\section{Augustin's Concessions}
\label{AugustinsConcessions}

Here are two potential problems for Booleans:

\begin{itemize}
\item \textsc{dilation} Instates are vulnerable to dilation.
\item \textsc{obtuse} Instates do not permit learning.
\end{itemize}

Again, these are best explained by examples. First, here is an example
for \textsc{dilation} (see \scite{8}{white10}{175f} and
\scite{8}{joyce10}{296f}).

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Dilation}\label{ex:dilation} Larry has two Bernoulli
  Generators, \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}$ and
  \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$. He has excellent evidence that
  \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}$ is fair and no evidence about the
  bias of \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$. Larry's graduate student
  independently tosses both \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}$ and
  \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$. Then she tells Larry whether the
  two tosses are correlated or not
  ($H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$ or
  $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}T_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$, where
  $X\equiv{}Y$ means
  $(X\wedge{}Y)\vee(\urcorner{}X\wedge\urcorner{}Y)$). Larry, who has
  a sharp credence for $H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$, takes this information
  in stride, but he feels bad for Bob, whose credence in
  $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}$ dilates to $[0.1]$ even though Bob shares
  Larry's excellent evidence that \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}$
  is fair.
\end{quotex}

Here is why Bob's credence in $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}$ must dilate. His
credence in $H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$ is $[0,1]$, by stipulation. Let
$c(X)$ be the set of sharp credences representing Bob's instate, for
example $c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})=[0,1]$. Then

\begin{equation}
  \label{eq:d1}
  c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})=c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}T_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})=\{0.5\}
\end{equation}

because the tosses are independent and
$c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}})=\{0.5\}$ by stipulation. Next,

\begin{equation}
  \label{eq:d2}
  c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}|H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})=c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}|H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})
\end{equation}

where $c(X|Y)$ is the updated instate after finding out $Y$. Booleans
accept (\ref{eq:d2}) because they are Bayesians and update by standard
conditioning. Therefore,

\begin{align}
  \label{eq:d3}
  &c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}|H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})=c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}|H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})=\frac{c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}})c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})}{c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}})c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})+c(T_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}})c(T_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})} \notag \\
  &=c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})=[0,1].
\end{align}

Bob's updated instate for $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}$ has dilated from
$\{0.5\}$ to $[0,1]$.

This does not sound like a knock-down argument against Booleans (it is
investigated in detail in \scite{7}{seidenfeldwasserman93}{}), but
Roger White uses it to derive implications from instates which are
worrisome.

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Chocolates}\label{ex:chocolates} Four out of five
  chocolates in the box have cherry fillings, while the rest have
  caramel. Picking one at random, what should my credence be that it
  is cherry-filled? Everyone, including the staunchest [Booleans],
  seems to agree on the answer $4/5$. Now of course the chocolate I've
  chosen has many other features, for example this one is circular
  with a swirl on top [{\ldots}] while my credence that the chosen
  chocolate is cherry-filled should be $4/5$ prior to viewing it, once
  I see its shape [{\ldots}] my credence that it is cherry-filled
  should dilate to become [indeterminate]. But this is just not the
  way we think about such matters. (Quoted verbatim from
  \scite{8}{white10}{183}.)
\end{quotex}

Second, here is an example for \textsc{obtuse} (see Susanna Rinard's
objection cited in \scite{8}{white10}{84} and addressed in
\scite{8}{joyce10}{290f}). It presumes Joyce's supervaluationist
semantics of instates (see \scite{8}{joyce10}{288}; and
\scite{7}{rinard15}{}), for which Joyce uses the helpful metaphor of
committee members, each of whom holds a sharp credence. The instate
consists then of the set of sharp credences from each committee
member: for the purposes of updating, for example, each committee
member updates as if she were holding a sharp credence. The aggregate
of the committee members' updated sharp credences forms the updated
instate. Supervaluationist semantics also permits comparisons, when
for example a partial belief in $X$ is stronger than a partial belief
in $Y$ because all committee members have sharp credences in $X$ which
exceed all the sharp credences held by committee members with respect
to $Y$.

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Obtuse}\label{ex:obtuse} Bob has a Bernoulli
  Generator in his lab, \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{vi}}}$, of whose
  bias he knows nothing and which he submits to experiments. At first,
  Bob's instate for $H_{\mbox{\tiny{vi}}}$ is $[0.1]$. After a few
  experiments, it looks like \textit{coin}$_{\mbox{\tiny{vi}}}$ is
  fair. However, as committee members crowd into the centre and update
  their sharp credences to something closer to $0.5$, they are
  replaced by extremists on the fringes. The instate remains at
  $[0,1]$. 
\end{quotex}

Joyce, an authoritative Boolean voice, has defended instates against
\textsc{dilation} and \textsc{obtuse}, making Augustin's concessions
(AC1) and (AC2). I am naming them after Thomas Augustin, who has some
priority over Joyce in the matter.

\begin{description}
\item[{\bf (AC1)}] Credences do not adequately represent a doxastic
  state. The same instate can reflect different doxastic states.
\item[{\bf (AC2)}] Instates do not represent knowledge claims about
  objective chances. White's \emph{Chance Grounding Thesis} is not an
  appropriate characterization of the Boolean position.
\end{description}

I agree with Joyce that (AC1) and (AC2) are both necessary and
sufficient to resolve \textsc{dilation} and \textsc{obtuse} for
instates. I will address this in more detail in a moment. I disagree
with Joyce what this means for an overall recommendation to accept the
Boolean rather than the Laplacean position. I will show that (AC1) and
(AC2) neutralize both \textsc{range} and \textsc{incomplete}, the two
major impulses for rejecting the Laplacean position. Laplaceans, more
modestly, consider a credence to reflect the doxastic state while
filtering out some evidential features, which need to be independently
represented. Overall, a sharp credence reflects the doxastic state and
does not represent it (cashing out the difference in the sense that a
credence which reflects the doxastic state is not sufficient for
inference, updating, and decision making; whereas a credence which
represents the doxastic state would be sufficient). If instates could
successfully integrate all relevant features of the doxastic state,
they would represent it. (AC1) and (AC2) manifest that they
cannot.\bcut{4}\bcut{5}

Indeterminacy imposes a double task on credences (representing both
uncertainty and available evidence) that they cannot coherently
fulfill. I will present several examples where this double task
stretches instates to the limits of plausibility. Joyce's idea that
credences can represent balance, weight, and specificity of the
evidence (in \scite{7}{joyce05}{}) is inconsistent with the use of
indeterminacy. Joyce himself, in response to \textsc{dilation} and
\textsc{obtuse}, gives the argument why this is the case (see
\scite{8}{joyce10}{290ff} for \textsc{obtuse}; and
\scite{8}{joyce10}{296ff} for \textsc{dilation}).\bcut{12} Let us look
more closely at how (AC1) and (AC2) protect the Boolean position from
\textsc{dilation} and \textsc{obtuse}.

\subsection{Augustin's Concession (AC1)}
\label{jj1}

(AC1) says that credences do not adequately represent a doxastic state.
The same instate can reflect different doxastic states.

Augustin recognizes the problem of inadequate representation before
Joyce, with specific reference to instates: \qeins{The imprecise
  posterior does no longer contain all the relevant information to
  produce optimal decisions. Inference and decision do not coincide
  any more} \scite{2}{augustin03}{41} (see also an example for
inadequate representation of evidence by instates in
\scite{8}{bradleysteele13}{16}). Joyce rejects the notion that
identical instates encode identical beliefs by giving a simple
example:

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Three-Sided Die}\label{ex:die} Let $\mathcal{C}'$ and
  $\mathcal{C}''$ be sets of credence functions defined on a partition
  $\{X,Y,Z\}$ corresponding to the result of a roll of a three
  sided-die. $\mathcal{C}'$ contains all credence functions $c$ for
  which $c(Z)\geq{}1/2$. $\mathcal{C}''$ contains all credence
  functions $c$ for which $c(X)=c(Y)$ (see \scite{8}{joyce10}{294}).
\end{quotex}

$\mathcal{C}'$ and $\mathcal{C}''$ represent the same instates, but
they surely differ in the doxastic states that they encode. The
doxastic state corresponding to $\mathcal{C}'$ regards $X$ and $Y$ as
equiprobable, the doxastic state corresponding to $\mathcal{C}''$ does
not. Joyce's contention is that Example \ref{ex:dilation} shares
features with Example \ref{ex:die} in the sense that
$H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$ is inadmissible
evidence so that the Principal Principle does not hold. To unpack this
claim, note that the problem with \textsc{dilation} in Example
\ref{ex:dilation} is that on the surface we consider
$H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$ to be admissible so
that Lewis' Principal Principle holds: (*)
$H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$ does not give
anything away about $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}$, therefore (**)
$c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}|H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}})=c(H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}})$
by the Principal Principle and in contradiction to (\ref{eq:d3}). The
Principal Principle requires that my knowledge of objective chances is
reflected in my credence, unless there is inadmissible evidence (such
as knowing the outcome of a coin toss, in which case of course I do
not need to have a credence for it corresponding to the bias of the
coin).

Joyce attacks (*), but he cannot do so unless he makes concession
(AC1). For $H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$ is
information that changes the doxastic state without changing the
credence, just as in Example \ref{ex:die}. As such
$H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$ is inadmissible
information, and the argument for (**) fails.\bcut{15} On this point,
I agree with Joyce: given (AC1),
$H_{\mbox{\tiny{iv}}}\equiv{}H_{\mbox{\tiny{v}}}$ is inadmissible and
\textsc{dilation} ceases to be a problem for the Boolean position.
(AC1), however, undermines \textsc{incomplete}, an important argument
which Joyce has used to reject the Laplacean position.

\subsection{Augustin's Concession (AC2)}
\label{jj2}

(AC2) says that instates do not reflect knowledge claims about
objective chances. White's \emph{Chance Grounding Thesis} is not an
appropriate characterization of the Boolean position.

\begin{quotex}
  \textbf{Chance Grounding Thesis:} Only on the basis of known chances
  can one legitimately have sharp credences. Otherwise one's spread of
  credence should cover the range of possible chance hypotheses left
  open by your evidence. \scite{2}{white10}{174}\bcut{13}
\end{quotex}

Joyce considers (AC2) to be as necessary for a coherent Boolean view
of partial beliefs, blocking \textsc{obtuse}, as (AC1) is, blocking
\textsc{dilation} (see \scite{8}{joyce10}{289f}).\bcut{16} 

\textsc{obtuse} is related to \textsc{vacuity}, another problem for
Booleans:

\begin{itemize}
\item \textsc{vacuity} If one were to be committed to the principle of
  regularity, that all states of the world considered possible have
  positive probability (for a defence see \scite{7}{edwardsetal63}{});
  and to the solution of Henry Kyburg's lottery paradox, that what is
  rationally accepted should have probability 1 (for a defence of this
  principle see \scite{7}{douvenwilliamson06}{}); and the CGT, that
  one's spread of credence should cover the range of possible chance
  hypotheses left open by the evidence (implied by much of Boolean
  literature); then one's instate would always be vacuous.
\end{itemize}

Booleans must deny at least one of the premises to avoid the
conclusion. Joyce denies the CGT, giving us (AC2). 

\section{The Double Task}
\label{TheDoubleTask}

Sharp credences have one task: to represent epistemic uncertainty and
serve as a tool for updating, inference, and decision making. They
cannot fulfill this task without continued reference to the evidence
which operates in the background. To use an analogy, credences are not
sufficient statistics with respect to updating, inference, and
decision making. What is remarkable about Joyce's response to
\textsc{dilation} and \textsc{obtuse} is that Joyce recognizes that
instates are not sufficient statistics either. But this means that
they fail at the double task which has been imposed on them: to
represent both epistemic uncertainty and relevant features of the evidence.

In the following, I will provide a few examples where it becomes clear
that instates have difficulty representing uncertainty because they
are tangled in a double task which they cannot fulfill.

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Aggregating Expert Opinion}\label{ex:aggreg} Bob has no
  information whether it will rain tomorrow ($R$) or not except the
  predictions of two weather forecasters. One of them forecasts 0.3 on
  channel GPY, the other 0.6 on channel QCT. Bob considers the QCT
  forecaster to be significantly more reliable, based on past
  experience.
\end{quotex}

An instate corresponding to this situation may be $[0.3,0.6]$ (see
\scite{8}{walley91}{214}), but it will have a difficult time
representing the difference in reliability of the experts. We could
try $[0.2,0.8]$ (since the greater reliability of QCT suggests that
the chance of rain tomorrow is higher rather than lower) or
$[0.1,0.7]$ (since the greater reliability of QCT suggests that its
estimate is more precise), but it remains obscure what the criteria
might be.

A sharp credence of $P(R)=0.53$, for example, does the right thing.
Such a credence says nothing about any beliefs that the objective
chance is restricted to a subset of the unit interval, but it
accurately reflects the degree of uncertainty that the rational agent
has over the various possibilities. As we will see in the next
example, it is an advantage of sharp credences that they do not
exclude objective chances, even extreme ones, because they are fully
committed to partial belief and do not suggest, as indeterminate
credences do, that there is full belief knowledge that the objective
chance is a member of a proper subset of the possibilities.

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Precise Credences}\label{ex:preccre} Larry's credence for
  rain tomorrow, based on the expert opinion of channel GPY and
  channel QCT (he has no other information) is $0.53$. Is it
  reasonable for Larry, considering how little evidence he has, to
  reject the belief that the chance of rain tomorrow is $0.52$ or
  $0.54$; or to prefer a $52.9$ cent bet on rain to a $47.1$ cent bet
  on no rain?
\end{quotex}

The first question in Example \ref{ex:preccre} is confused, but in
instructive ways (a display of this confusion is found in
\scite{8}{hajeksmithson12}{38f}, and their doctor and their time of
the day analogy). A sharp credence rejects no hypothesis about
objective chances (unlike an instate, unless (AC2) is firmly in
place). It often has a subjective probability distribution operating
in the background, over which it integrates to yield the sharp
credence (it would do likewise in H{\'a}jek and Smithson's example for
the prognosis of the doctor or the time of the day, without any
problems).

A sharp credence constrains partial beliefs in objective chances by
Lewis' summation formula. No objective chance is excluded by it
(principle of regularity) and any updating will merely change the
partial beliefs, but no full beliefs. Instates, on the other hand, by
giving ranges of acceptable objective chances suggest that there is a
full belief that the objective chance does not lie outside what is
indicated by the instate. A Boolean can avoid this situation by
accepting (AC2).

Here is a brief example to illustrate the difference between the
Laplacean theory of partial beliefs based on the principle of
regularity and the Boolean position which introduces an obscure grey
zone between partial beliefs and full belief, update and revision,
traditional epistemology and formal epistemology.

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Bavarian King}\label{ex:king} Matthias Perth, an Austrian
  civil servant, observes the Bavarian king at the Congress of Vienna
  in 1815 and writes in his diary that the king \qeins{appears to be a
    man between 45 and 47 years old} (see
  \texttt{http://www.das-perth-projekt.at}).
\end{quotex}

If Perth learns that the king was 49 years old, he must revise, not
just update, his earlier judgment. The appropriate formal instrument
is belief revision, not probability update, requiring a substantial
reconciliation project between formal and traditional epistemology
operating in the background. I do not see this project articulated in
the Boolean literature (for an example of such a project see
\scite{7}{spohn12}{}, especially chapter 10). Sarah Moss also
undertakes it and assumes the Boolean approach (see
\scite{7}{moss13}{}), but I fail to see how the Boolean approach is
essential to her reconciliation or how her reconciliation gives
independent arguments for the Boolean approach. If Perth had wanted to
express a sharp credence, he would have said, \qeins{my best guess is
  that the king is 46 years old,} and the information that the king
was 49 would have triggered the appropriate update, without any
revision of full beliefs.

The second question in Example \ref{ex:preccre} is also instructive:
why would we prefer a $52.9$ cent bet on rain to a $47.1$ cent bet on
no rain, given that we do not possess the power of descrimination
between these two bets? The answer to this question ties in with the
issue of incomplete preference structure referred to above as
motiviation (B) for instates.

The development of representation theorems beginning with Frank Ramsey
(followed by increasingly more compelling representation theorems in
\scite{7}{savage54}{}; and \scite{7}{jeffrey65}{}; and numerous other
variants in contemporary literature) puts the horse before the cart
and bases probability and utility functions of an agent on her
preferences, not the other way around. Once completeness as an axiom
for the preferences of an agent is jettisoned, indeterminacy follows
automatically. Indeterminacy may thus be a natural consequence of the
proper way to think about credences in terms of the preferences that
they represent.

In response, preferences may very well logically and psychologically
precede an agent's probability and utility functions, but that does
not mean that we cannot inform the axioms we use for a rational
agent's preferences by undesirable consequences downstream.
Completeness may sound like an unreasonable imposition at the outset,
but if incompleteness has unwelcome consequences for credences
downstream, it is not illegitimate to revisit the issue. Timothy
Williamson goes through this exercise with vague concepts, showing
that all upstream logical solutions to the problem fail and that it
has to be solved downstream with an epistemic solution (see
\scite{7}{williamson96}{}). Vague concepts, like sharp credences, are
sharply bounded, but not in a way that is luminous to the agent (for
anti-luminosity see chapter 4 in \scite{7}{williamson00}{}).
Anti-luminosity answers the original question: the rational agent
prefers the $52.9$ cent bet on rain to a $47.1$ cent bet on no rain
based on her sharp credence without being in a position to have this
preference necessarily or have it based on physical or psychological
ability (for the analogous claim about knowledge see
\scite{8}{williamson00}{95}).

In a way, advocates of indeterminacy have solved this problem for us.
There is strong agreement among most of them that the issue of
determinacy for credences is not an issue of elicitation (sometimes
the term \qnull{indeterminacy} is used instead of \qnull{imprecision}
to underline this difference; see \scite{8}{levi85}{395}). The appeal
of preferences is that we can elicit them more easily than assessments
of probability and utility functions. The indeterminacy issue has been
raised to the probability level (or moved downstream) by indeterminacy
advocates themselves who feel justifiably uncomfortable with an
interpretation of their theory in behaviourist terms. So it shall be
solved there, and this paper makes an appeal to reject indeterminacy
on this level. The solution then has to be carried upstream (or
lowered to the logically more basic level of preferences), where we
recognize that completeness for preferences is after all a desirable
axiom for rationality. Isaac Levi agrees with me on this point: when
he talks about indeterminacy, it proceeds from the level of
probability judgment to preferences, not the other way around (see
\scite{8}{levi81}{533}).

\begin{quotex}
  \beispiel{Monkey-Filled Urns}\label{ex:monkey} Let urn $A$ contain 4
  balls, two red and two black. A monkey randomly fills urn $B$ from
  urn $A$ with two balls. We draw from urn $B$ (a precursor to this
  example is in \scite{8}{jaynesbretthorst03}{160}).
\end{quotex}

The sharp credence of drawing a red ball is $0.5$, following Lewis'
summation formula for the different combinations of balls in urn $B$.
This solution is more intuitive in terms of further inference,
decision making, and betting behaviour than a credal state of
$\{0,1/2,1\}$ or $[0,1]$ (depending on the convexity requirement),
since this instate would licence an exorbitant bet in favour of one
colour, for example one that costs \$9,999 and pays \$10,000 if red is
drawn and nothing if black is drawn.

To conclude, a Boolean in the light of Joyce's two Augustinian
concessions has three alternatives, of which I favour the third: (a)
to find fault with Joyce's reasoning as he makes those concessions;
(b) to think (as Joyce presumably does) that the concessions are
compatible with the promises of Booleans, such as \textsc{range} and
\textsc{incomplete}, to solve prima facie problems of sharp credences;
or (c) to abandon the Boolean position because (AC1), (AC2), and an
array of examples in which sharp credences are conceptually and
pragmatically more appealing show that the initial promise of the
Boolean position is not fulfilled.

% \nocite{*} 
\bibliographystyle{ChicagoReedweb} 
\bibliography{bib-7293}

\end{document} 
