Hi Stefan,

I read through your paper. I strongly encourage you to pursue this
project in your SSHRC proposal. Your 2-page research proposal can
explain the claim that information theory subsumes probability theory,
can perhaps outline the argument about updating as an illustration,
and can indicate one or two ways in which you think the implications
of information theory for epistemology go beyond those of probability.
The more you can sharpen your statement of your project, the better,
but I think you have enough to write an excellent proposal.

I did have some questions/comments on the paper, Also, I readily
acknowledge that I did not work through the technical results of the
middle portion myself, but that is something that I will do (with
you!) when you are writing your thesis (if it ends up being on this
topic).

One quick question, though. What is Guiasu's position on the priority
of information theory and probability theory? The quotations in
footnotes 2 and 4 seem to be in conflict. Is the conflict removed when
we look at his comments in the context of his whole book? This is a
small piece of a general question that I have, which is hard to state
clearly. I am wondering whether, for the sorts of uses to which we put
probability, there really is much significance to the priority
question (between probability theory and information theory). In other
words: can we cleanly "factor" information theory into a piece that
has implications about the very notions to which we want to apply
probability theory, and a piece that has other epistemological
implications, with the former piece being fully equivalent to
probability theory? I suspect that you want to show that we don't have
this nice factorization, and that would indeed be a much more
interesting result than the claim that information theory goes beyond
probability theory in the sense that it has these two "component
factors".

Paul
