{\rtf1\adeflang1025\ansi\ansicpg10000\uc1\adeff0\deff0\stshfdbch86\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033\themelang1033\themelangfe0\themelangcs0{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f86\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02000603020000020003}Cochin;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f86\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02000603020000020003}Cochin;}{\flomajor\f31500\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}{\fdbmajor\f31501\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhimajor\f31502\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020f0502020204030204}Calibri;}{\fbimajor\f31503\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\flominor\f31504\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fdbminor\f31505\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\fhiminor\f31506\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02040503050406030204}Cambria;}{\fbiminor\f31507\fbidi \fnil\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\*\defchp \dbch\af86 }{\*\defpap \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 }\noqfpromote {\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tblind0\tblindtype3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs20\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs20\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f0\hich\af0\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 \slink16 \ssemihidden \styrsid15483434 header;}{\*\cs16 \additive \rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \f86\fs24 \sbasedon10 \slink15 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid15483434 Header Char;}{\s17\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\f86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext17 \slink18 \ssemihidden \styrsid15483434 footer;}{\*\cs18 \additive \rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \f86\fs24 \sbasedon10 \slink17 \slocked \ssemihidden \styrsid15483434 Footer Char;}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid15483434}{\mmathPr\mmathFont0\mbrkBin0\mbrkBinSub0\msmallFrac0\mdispDef0\mlMargin0\mrMargin0\mwrapRight0\mintLim0\mnaryLim0}{\info{\title Prospectus}{\author Taylor Davis}{\operator Taylor Davis}{\creatim\yr2012\mo3\dy19\hr14\min57}{\revtim\yr2012\mo3\dy19\hr14\min57}{\version2}{\edmins2}{\nofpages30}{\nofwords9921}{\nofchars56552}{\nofcharsws69449}{\vern33031}{\*\saveprevpict}}{\*\xmlnstbl {\xmlns1 http://schemas.microsoft.com/office/word/2003/wordml}}\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440\gutter0\ltrsect \ftnbj\aenddoc\trackmoves0\trackformatting1\donotembedsysfont0\relyonvml0\donotembedlingdata1\grfdocevents0\validatexml0\showplaceholdtext0\ignoremixedcontent0\saveinvalidxml0\showxmlerrors0\horzdoc\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1701\dgvorigin1984\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind1\viewscale171\viewzk2\rsidroot15483434 \fet0{\*\wgrffmtfilter 013f}\ilfomacatclnup0{\*\ftnsep \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \chftnsep \par }}{\*\ftnsepc \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \chftnsepc \par }}{\*\aftnsep \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \chftnsep \par }}{\*\aftnsepc \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \chftnsepc \par }}\ltrpar \sectd \ltrsect\pgnrestart\linex0\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\headerr \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15483434 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\insrsid15483434\charrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Taylor Davis\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab \tab   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86                   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs22\insrsid15483434\charrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Prospectus\par }}{\footerr \ltrpar \pard\plain \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs28\insrsid15483434 \chpgn \par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \rtlch\fcs1 \af0\afs24\alang1033 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\loch\af86\hich\af86\dbch\af86\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \fs48\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Abstract}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The Evolution of Religious Belief{\*\bkmkend Abstract}\par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434\charrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid15483434 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs36\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Abstract}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs36\insrsid15483434\charrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The scientific study of religion has boomed in the last two decades, as psychologists, anthropologists and biologists have all begun approaching the topic from the shared perspective of evolutionary theo\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ry.  But predictably, this booming interdisciplinary industry has lead to a proliferation of distinct evolutionary accounts of religious belief and behavior, and despite widespread agreement }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 that }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 evolution should provide the theoretical framework for the study of religion, there is much less agreement about }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 how }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 it should do so.   \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Very different sorts of phenomena fit intuitively under the general heading of \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 religion.\u8221\'d3\loch\f86   Recent evolutionary account\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s of religious belief and behavior have appealed to such disparate phenomena as memory biases (Boyer, 2001), the detection of agents (Guthrie, 1993), cheating behavior (Bateson, Nettle, & Roberts, 2006), and rhythmic movement (Rappaport, 1999).  This crea\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 es conceptual questions about how these logically compatible theories are actually }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 related}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , given the very different sorts of observations they explain.  Moreover, it is not obvious what role biological theory should play in psychological explanation even \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 at the best of times, when it is entirely clear what needs to be explained.  So when scientists from different disciplines use different methods to pursue such different phenomena, they tend to form correspondingly disparate views about the theoretical pr\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nciples guiding their research.  As a result, one finds in the literature ways of employing evolutionary principles in psychological explanation that are not just unrelated, but genuinely incompatible.     \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 I propose to address these conceptual issues by r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 eflecting on certain general concepts and commitments already shared among those who seek to derive psychological explanations from biological theory.  For example, by reflecting on the role of beliefs in general in psychological explanation, I address qu\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 stions about how very different sorts of observations relate to each other as religious phenomena.  And by reflecting on the role played by processes of selection in psychological explanation, I address questions about what distinguishes religious belief \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 f\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 rom ordinary belief.  My aims in doing so are both philosophical and scientific.  While one aim is to develop and clarify the theoretical framework guiding empirical research on religion, another is to understand how the current science of religious belie\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 f\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  relates to the understanding of religion inherited from common sense.  \par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs36\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Lit_Review}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Literature Review{\*\bkmkend Lit_Review}\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Introduction}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 While there have been many notable attempts in the past from philosophers and social scientists to explain religion from a more or less naturalistic perspective (Hume, 1992; 1993; James, 1902; Durkheim, 1995; Tylor, 1871; Evans-Prichard, 1956; 1965), non\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  of these attempts has taken root as a genuine }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 science }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 of religion.  Even if they insist on a materialist ontology, these theories from the humanities and social sciences have not related the social, phenomenological and philosophical phenomena they descri\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 be to the explanations of physical facts described by theories in the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 non}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 -social sciences.  As a result, what we inherit from them are small islands of theory that remain conceptually isolated both from each other and from the rest of scientific knowledge,\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  rather than a theoretical framework capable of stimulating and sustaining a shared, collective program of empirical research.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 In the last twenty years, however, scientists from across the disciplines of psychology, anthropology and biology have taken u\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 p the study of religion as a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 psychological}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  phenomenon, rather than a social or phenomenological one, and they have attempted to explain it on the basis of a shared commitment to the principles of biological theory.  This has generated several distinct prog\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 rams of empirical research capable of being integrated both with each other and with scientific theory more generally\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 at least, in principle.  For even given widespread agreement about the importance of evolutionary principles in general, substantial disa\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 g\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 reements have arisen about how those principles figure in explanations of religious belief and behavior.  I describe below what I take to be some of the most important and representative debates.\par \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Issue_I}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Issue 1:  Is Religion an Adaptation?{\*\bkmkend Issue_I}\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Perhap\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s the most fundamental debate in this area has to do with whether or not religion is an adaptation.  As anthropologist Richard Sosis points out (Sosis, 2009), the oldest body of theory in this area is based on experimental work done in a sub-field commonl\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 y\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86  referred to as the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 cognitive science of religion.\u8221\'d3\loch\f86   These researchers emphasize ways in which religious psychology is based on ordinary, non-religious cognitive capacities.  According to this view, the psychological capacities that explain religious bel\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ef and behavior are adaptations, but they are not adaptations for specifically religious forms of belief and behavior.  On this view, religion is an evolutionary byproduct.    \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 For example, one of the early theories of this kind holds that people\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s ordina\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ry capacity for detecting agents in their environment is \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 hyperactive,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  because it would be adaptive for agency detection to be biased toward false positives over false negatives (Guthrie, 1993); it\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s usually better for an animal to mistake something that\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 isn\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t an agent for an agent than it is to overlook the existence of an agent nearby.  As a result, it is claimed, people are biased toward belief in agents that don\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t exist, like the supernatural agents that show up in so many religions from so many diffe\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ent cultures.  Guthrie posits an innate, universal Hyperactive Agency Detection Device (HADD) that is itself an adaptation, and that explains the formation of beliefs in gods and spirits.  But the evolutionary function of the HADD is not the formation of \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 b\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 eliefs about supernatural agents.  That is a byproduct of its actual function.\par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Other examples of this kind appeal to other non-religious psychological capacities that explain things about religious belief, and this byproduct approach has become accepted w\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 idely enough that anthropologist Pascal Boyer has called it the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Standard Model\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  of explanation in the cognitive science of religion (Boyer, 2005).  In addition to Boyer and Guthrie, Standard Model theorists include psychologists Justin Barrett (Barrett, \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 2\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 004), Ara Norenzayan (Norenzayan & Shariff, 2008) and Paul Bloom (Bloom, 2007), anthropologists Scott Atran (Atran, 2002) and Joe Henrich (Atran & Henrich, 2010), and philosopher Robert McCauley and his co-author Thomas Lawson (McCauley & Lawson, 2002), a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 comparative religion scholar.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Sosis argues that some of the prevalence of the Standard Model is the result of a historical accident:  those offering adaptationist accounts of religion simply joined the discussion late.  He supports the costly signaling \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 hypothesis of Irons (Irons, 2001), which explains many of the costly and seemingly maladaptive behaviors of religion by appeal to the role they play in facilitating adaptive cooperation.  Because in many social contexts the benefits of cooperation are vul\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 n\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 erable to exploitation by free-riders who don\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 \hich\f86 t \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 chip in\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  to pay shared costs, people could easily }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 claim }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 to believe in religious principles that would inhibit free-riding\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 like a God who punishes moral violations\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 even if they didn\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t really believe those pri\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nciples.  But if true believers are able to publicly signal their commitment to such principles in costly ways, like public self-flagellation, or abstinence from sources of protein like pork or beef, then they can distinguish themselves from free-riders w\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 h\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o are not willing to pay such costs.  This enables other cooperators to identify them as cooperators, which enables them to reap the benefits of cooperation.\par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Evolutionary biologist David Sloan Wilson offers a different kind of adaptationist view of religi\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 on (Wilson, 2002).  This account shares with costly signaling theory the assumption that the adaptive value of religion is derived from the benefits of cooperation, but it emphasizes a different mechanism of selection.  Where Irons focuses on the overall \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 daptive value of costly acts for the individuals who perform them, Wilson focuses instead on group-level adaptive benefits.  From this point of view, it is possible for individuals\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86  behavior to be genuinely maladaptive }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 for}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 them, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 but for it at the same time\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  to contribute to the selection of their }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 group}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  over competing groups.  As Sosis and Alcorta note, these two adaptationist theories are not necessarily in conflict with each other (Sosis & Alcorta, 2003).  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Psychologist Jonathan Haidt adopts Wilson\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s group\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 -level adaptationist framework, and uses it to explain the psychological relationship between mo}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 rality and religion (Haidt, 2012}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ).  It is worth noting that the adaptationist camp in this debate will generally have little difficulty explaining this relation\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ship, since that camp is united in appealing to the adaptive value of cooperation and social relationships.  By contrast, Standard Model theorists have thus far appealed to cognitive}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 capacities that have little to do with motivating cooperation, leaving it\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  much less clear why religion and morality are so closely connected in human psychology.\par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Philosophers Powell and Clarke argue against the Standard Model on different grounds (Powell & Clarke, 2012).  They advance a \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 pluralist\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  view, according to which sel\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ection may still explain what is religious about otherwise non-religious products of selection, like hyperactive agency detection.  Even if religion consists of a motley bunch of distinct capacities that evolved for other purposes, they argue, it may yet \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 b\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e that selection explains why those capacities come together in a bunch.  For example, if hyperactive agency detection helps promote cooperation when individuals form }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 shared }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 supernatural beliefs, then perhaps selection for cooperation explains why activiti\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 es of the HADD system interact in systematic ways with other systems involved in motivating cooperation.\par \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Issue_II}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Issue 2.  What is the Role of Cultural Learning in Religious Psychology?{\*\bkmkend Issue_II}\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 An important consequence of explaining religious psychology\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  from an evolutionary perspective is that it seems to deflate the role of cultural processes in explaining religious belief and behavior, since appeals to innate capacities appear to leave little room for cultural learning as an explanatory factor.  But r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ligions obviously follow cultural patterns of distribution, and this must be explained somehow.  These concerns link the literature on religion to a more general debate about the relationship between genetic selection and cultural processes in psychologic\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 l explanations. \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 While we learn from others how to apply words like \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 blue\u8221\'d3\loch\f86 \hich\f86  or \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 blau\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  to the sky, we do not learn from others that the sky is blue.  Rather, we just }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 see }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 that the sky is blue, and we all see the sky in the same way because we share the same \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 innate mechanisms of color vision.  And when we go to explain why people living in the tropics do not build igloos, or why people living in the arctic do not take siesta, we do not appeal to cultural learning.  Evolutionary psychologists Leda Cosmides and\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 John Tooby (Tooby & Cosmides, 1989) call cultural phenomena explained in this way \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 evoked\u8221\'d3\loch\f86 \hich\f86  culture, and they contrast it with \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 epidemiological\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  culture, which explains cultural patterns by appeal to cultural learning.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Anthropologist Dan Sperber (Sperber\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , 1996) makes the same point while arguing for a naturalistic, materialistic view of culture, and two of his former students have become leading proponents of the Standard Model.  Both Scott Atran and Pascal Boyer have sought to explain the cultural trans\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 m\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ission of religious beliefs by appealing to innate, universal psychological capacities (Boyer, 2001; Atran, 2002).  Both adopt Guthrie\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s HADD account, and add to that Boyer\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 \hich\f86 s own hypothesis based on memory biases that favor the retention of \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 minimally cou\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 n\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 terintuitive beliefs.\u8221\'d3\loch\f86   Religious beliefs, Boyer argues, run counter to some of our ordinary intuitions, and this makes them stand out as particularly memorable ideas.  But they are not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 so}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  counterintuitive as to be incoherent, and thus hard to remember.  H\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ence, they are \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 minimally\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  counterintuitive.    \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 This is also the approach taken by Justin Barrett, who describes systematic inconsistencies between people\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 \hich\f86 s reflective, \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 theologically correct\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  religious beliefs and the unreflective, intuitive beliefs tha\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t, he says, actually do the psychological work of guiding their inferences (Barrett, 2004).  Barrett explains the more psychologically potent nonreflective beliefs by appeal to innate systems, which he assumes are universal.  This is also the approach tak\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 n by Paul Bloom who reviews the literature on the cognitive science of religion from a developmental perspective, emphasizing culturally universal patterns of development (Bloom, 2007).  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 On these accounts, innate adaptations do all the explanatory work, \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 and cultural learning plays no role.  Yet one psychological capacity that appears to be innate and universal\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 the capacity for cultural learning\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 is conspicuously absent from these accounts.   \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 More recently, however, Atran has come to consider cultural lea\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 rning more important, and has teamed up with Joseph Henrich, an anthropologist who studies processes of cultural transmission.  Together they offer an account of more recent trends in the evolution of religion that explicitly depend on cultural learning, \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ather than on evoked culture (Atran & Henrich, 2010).  More specifically, they focus on the positive correlation between the size and complexity of social groups and the degree to which the religions of those groups involve gods who care about the moral b\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 havior of humans (Raymond & Roes, 2003).  Atran and Henrich argue that beliefs in moralistic Gods who punish norm violators work better than supernatural beliefs of other kinds to stabilize cooperation in large and complex groups, so those beliefs spread.\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  This, they suggest, has led to a process of cultural group selection in which competition at the level of whole groups explains the differential spread of religious beliefs and practices.  The particular process described here would explain, for example,\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 why moralistic religions like Christianity, Islam and Judaism have spread so widely around the world.  But this theory of cultural group selection depends on genuine cultural learning, not on evoked culture. \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Philosopher Chandra Sripada argues that while \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 it is generally assumed that adaptationist explanations for various behaviors are in competition with what he calls \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 culturist\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  explanations, based on social learning, there is in fact a quite natural sense in which these two forms of explanation can not \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nly be reconciled, but integrated (Sripada, 2008).  If the capacity for cultural learning is itself an adaptation, he suggests, then the relationship between these two forms of explanation is better viewed as a division of labor than as a competition.  Be\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 c\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ause learning is itself an innate capacity, genetic selection is an essential }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 part}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  of the explanation for why we are able to learn what we learn.  For example, one cannot explain why people like butter pecan ice cream without explaining why they like sugar\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  and fat, and that will require appealing to genetic selection.  But genetic selection alone will not explain why certain individuals seek sugar and fat in the particular form of butter pecan ice cream.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Indeed, philosopher Kim Sterelny argues convincingly that phenotypic plasticity in general, and learning in particular, are adaptations, and ones that loom large in explanations of human evolution (Sterelny, 2003).  Noting the variety of environmental co\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 n\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ditions under which humans evolved, Sterelny argues that what we are actually adapted to is the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 spread of variation}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  among these conditions, rather than to a single-valued }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 average}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  of such conditions.  Accordingly, it has been adaptive for many psychological\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  capacities }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 to be specified innately.  It has been more adaptive, for example, for people to learn which of the objects in their environments contain the most nourishing combinations of nutrients like sugar and fat than it has been for them to be born \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 with an innate preference for butter pecan ice cream.\par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Anthropologist Robert Boyd and ecologist Peter Richerson have developed a large body of theory based on what they call \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 cumulative cultural evolution,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  an evolutionary process in which humans learn sel\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ectively from others over many learning-generations, creating culturally shared beliefs, practices, institutions and technologies that they call \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 cultural adaptations\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  (Boyd & Richerson, 1995; Richerson & Boyd, 2005).  When some innovative way of doing th\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ngs is retained in a culture for many generations, there is time for improvements to be made upon it.  Since each of these improvements itself may be retained, a large set of improvements can accumulate over time.  As they put it, \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 humans can add one inno\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 v\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ation after another to a tradition until the results resemble organs of extreme perfection, like the eye\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  (Richerson & Boyd, 2005).  It is hard to believe that }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 tradition}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , the persistence of beliefs and practices that one person learns from another, is not \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 responsible for much of the functional complexity evident in the structure of a Midnight Mass ceremony, to say nothing of the complexity of the Catholic Church in general.  And the same can be said for other long-lived religious systems.  So it is hard to\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 believe that the psychology on which religious traditions are based can be understood without appeal to cultural learning.\par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The view of culture that Richerson and Boyd defend here is often called }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 dual-inheritance theory}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , because it views the retention of c\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ultural practices and beliefs as its own process of inheritance, distinct from genetic inheritance.  One striking consequence of this view is that evidence is now mounting for the occurrence of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 gene-culture co-evolution}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , a process in which cultural inherit\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ance causally influences genetic inheritance (Boyd & Richerson, 1985; Laland, Odling-Smee, & Myles, 2010).  The best evidence for the existence of this phenomenon has been found in the explanation for the correlation between dairying practices and the gen\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s that enable people to digest lactose (Holden & Mace, 2009).  However, Haidt argues that the same process could be at work in social domains like religion as well, such that the cultural environment structured by religious traditions might have exerted a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 n\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  influence over the genes involved in structuring}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  our moral emotions (Haidt, 2012}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ). \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Sperber (Sperber, 1996) and Cosmides & Tooby (Tooby & Cosmides, 1992) emphasized evoked culture over learning-based culture as a corrective to the tendency in social scie\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nce to avoid or reject individual-level explanations offered by psychology and biology.  Boyd and Richerson emphasize learning-based culture as a corrective to this corrective (Boyd & Richerson, 2006).  They argue that it is the adaptive value of capaciti\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s for }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cumulative}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  cultural evolution that explains how our innate capacity for social learning evolved.  This makes learning an important part of an }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 adaptationist}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  account of culture.  If what we want is to use the explanatory tools and methods of psychology\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  and biology to explain cultural phenomena, then it is not necessary to reject learning-based culturist explanations, as Standard Model theorists do. \par \par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx220\tx720\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Issue_III}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 3.  What forms of selection are involved in explaining religion?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkend Issue_III}\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Many of the current\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  evolutionary explanations for religious psychology employ the most basic and traditional view of Darwinian evolution, assuming that selection acts on individual organisms, and is based on genetic inheritance (Boyer, 2001; Atran, 2002; Guthrie, 1993; Barr\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 tt 2004; Irons, 2001).  Other theories, however, posit evolutionary processes that are more complex in various ways.  Everyone agrees that genetic selection acting on individual organisms is an essential }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 part}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  of the story, but some argue that it is only pa\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 rt of the story, and that more complicated processes of selection are also be involved.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 While selection for psychological traits is often explained by the fitness consequences those traits have for individuals, it is possible for behaviors to be selecte\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 d for both }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 below}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  the individual level, at the level of particular genes, and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 above}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  the individual level, at the level of groups.  The selfish gene view championed by Dawkins explains cases in which behaviors are detrimental to the individuals who perform t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 hem, but nevertheless adaptive (Dawkins, 1976).  The paradigmatic example is a parent\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s sacrificing her own life for the life of her child.  While such behavior is clearly bad for the parent, it is nevertheless adaptive, because it benefits the genes that\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 she shares with her child.  W. D. Hamilton coined the term }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 inclusive fitness}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  to describe the sense in which such behaviors are adaptive despite decreasing the fitness of those who perform them (Hamilton, 1964).  Religiously motivated behaviors that promote\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  sacrifices made for the sake of close genetic relatives can be explained by appeal to the selfish gene view of selection.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 However, no one working on the evolution of religion emphasizes conflicts in fitness between individuals and their genes, or betwe\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 en the level of the individual and the level below.  While few would deny that such conflicts occur, no one supposes that they could explain more than a small fraction of religious behaviors.  Indeed, what seems to be in need of explanation, from an evolu\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ionary point of view, is the wide range of religiously motivated behaviors that do }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 increase inclusive fitness.  Scott Atran begins his book on religious psychology by elucidating ways in which religion forms an evolutionary \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 riddle\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  for exactly this re\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ason (Atran, 2002).  He describes, for example, a story written on the panel of a temple in India in which a Hindu devotee intended to be taken as a moral exemplar kills and cooks his own son at the request of a god.   \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Biologist D. S. Wilson finds an ada\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ptationist way of explaining how such fitness-reducing religious behaviors could evolve by appealing instead to processes of selection }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 above }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 the level of the individual (Wilson, 2002).  According to this theory, while religious }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 individuals}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  might be less fi\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t than non-religious individuals, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 groups}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  composed of religious individuals are nevertheless more fit than groups composed of non-religious individuals.  Wilson offers the example of the Calvinists, whose religious principles led them to provide nursing car\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e during a plague.  This put the individuals who provided care in serious danger, but nursing care significantly reduced the overall incidence of death from the plague, increasing the fitness of the care-giving group.   \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 A serious flaw in Wilson\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s account\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , however, is that it does not distinguish between cultural learning and genetic selection as mechanisms of inheritance.  Wilson correctly points out that cultural processes can facilitate group selection.  Cultural learning decreases variation between in\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 d\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ividuals }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 within}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  groups, while simultaneously increasing variation }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 between}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  groups, and this increases the strength of group-level selection (Soltis, Boyd & Richerson, 1995).  And even though cultural transmission is a distinct form of inheritance from genet\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ic transmission, processes of cultural transmission have been shown to influence genetic selection (Laland, Odling-Smee, & Myles, 2010; Laland }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 et al.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , 2011).  So one of the ways in which culture can influence genes is by making group-level selection a more\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  potent force influencing gene frequencies in populations. \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 However, it is one thing to point to the role of cultural learning in facilitating group selection }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 in general}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , but quite another to appeal to cultural learning in a group-selectionist explanation\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  for }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 religion}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , in particular.  The problem is that the psychological capacities for cultural learning that explain the transmission of religious beliefs are not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 themselves}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  products of group selection.  According to the theory of gene-culture co-evolution, \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 group selection is an }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 effect }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 of the capacity for cultural learning, not a }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cause }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 of it.  Because Wilson\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s fundamental aim is to explain religious psychology by appeal to group selection, his appeals to cultural learning get the order of explanation backward\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 .  So for those aspects of religious psychology that are based on cultural learning, group selection falls out of the explanation.  The best Wilson can say is that after individual selection equipped humans with the cultural learning capacities that made \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 eligious beliefs transmissible, gene-culture co-evolution could have begun to influence genetic selection at the group level.      \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Psychologist Jonathan Haidt is more sensitive to the order of explanation here, and he is careful to invoke group selection\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  only for very recent evolutionary history, after cultural learning processes in general we}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 re already in place (Haidt, 2012}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ).  For Haidt, group selection remains a consequence of pre-existing cultural learning capacities that are not themselves the result \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 of group selection.  But this seriously constrains the role of group-level genetic selection in the explanation of religious psychology.  At best, what Haidt shows is that religious behavior explained by cultural learning }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 could }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 have contributed to group-le\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 vel selection in }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 recent}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  history.  This possibility should be explored empirically, but Haidt provides no evidence that this has actually occurred to any significant extent.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 What is likely to be of more use in explaining the role of cultural learning in \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 the psychology of religion is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cultural group selection}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  (Richerson, Boyd & Henrich, 2003; Soltis, Boyd & Richerson, 1995).  This process tracks }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cultural inheritance}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , rather than genetic \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 inheritance, that is explained by group-level selection.  When a population is subdivided into groups, or sub-populations, cultural traditions themselves may spread in the larger population as a result of their group-level effects.  This is the process to\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 which Atran & Henrich (Atran & Henrich, 2010) appeal when explaining the relative success of prosocial religions, like Christianity, Judaism and Islam, which use religious beliefs to reinforce moral norms and altruistic attitudes.  These monotheistic reli\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 g\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ions posit \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 big moralizing gods\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  that know and care about the moral behavior of human beings, and the hypothesis is that belief in such gods enables believers to maintain much larger cooperative groups than is otherwise possible.  And larger groups are in\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 general able to outcompete smaller groups, so the beliefs and practices of such groups are more likely to spread widely. \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Complicating the Darwinian picture by adding different mechanisms of inheritance and different levels of selection makes it possible \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 to have a richer and more subtle empirical account of what psychological traits have been selected for.  And if what traits have been selected for is relevant to determining what their psychological functions}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 are, as selection for other biological traits d\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 etermines what their functions are, then psychological explanations should benefit significantly from the possession of richer and more subtle answers to empirical questions about selection history.\par \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Issue_IV}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 4.  The Nature of Religious Belief:  Cognition \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 with Commitment}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkend Issue_IV}\par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 For psychological purposes, it is important to distinguish belief from cognition.  Cognition is representation, and while representation is an essential component of belief, it is not the only essential component.  As a psychologic\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 al construct, beliefs are a form of propositional attitude, and in order to use a belief in a psychological explanation one must identify }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 both}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  its propositional contents }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 and}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86  the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 attitude\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  the agent takes toward them, or the functional role that the conten\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ts plays in producing behavior.  Suppose I test a scientific hypothesis, and my data confirm it, and I then accept it as a belief.  What began as one kind of propositional attitude\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 a hypothesis\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 will have been transformed into a different kind of propositi\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nal attitude\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 a belief.  But that change in attitude will not involve a change in the content of what is believed.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Philosopher Georges Rey defends a position he calls \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 meta-atheism,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86 \hich\f86  according to which religious \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 believers\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  aren\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t actually believers at a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ll, but are engaged in a sort of self-deception (Rey, 2005).  According to Rey, theists do not actually }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 believe}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  the contents that they }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 avow, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 though they do not recognize this themselves}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 .  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 While they may take themselves to be believers, he says, the represe\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ntational contents of their purported beliefs do not actually function in their psychology in a belief-like way. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Rey presents a list of ways in which religious \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 beliefs\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  do not behave as good beliefs should.  For example, he points to ways in which the co\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ntents of religious systems actually function psychologically more like the symbolic contents of fictional stories.  People don\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t literally believe the contents of fictional stories, but they don\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t need to in order to extract the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 moral}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  from a fictional sto\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ry.  And it is the content of the moral, rather than the content of the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 narrative}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 , that actually influences their behavior.  Rey suggests that, psychologically speaking, this is also the case for many religious \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 beliefs.\u8221\'d3\loch\f86    \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Cognitive psychologist Justin \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Barrett presents experimental findings that support Rey\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s suggestion.  Barrett distinguishes the reflective beliefs that people form on the basis of conscious, abstract reasoning from the nonreflective beliefs that people form automatically and intuitivel\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 y\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , and he considers the respective roles of reflective and nonreflective belief in religion.  Theology is based on reflective processes of belief formation, but Barrett argues that reflective, theologically correct beliefs do not actually explain how the c\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ntents of religious systems function psychologically (Barrett, 2004).  For example, Catholics may have reflective beliefs about what it means for an ordinary wafer and glass of grape juice to literally }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 be }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 the body and blood of Christ.  Yet they express no \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 surprise at all that the grape juice doesn\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 taste }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 like blood.  So the attribution of this reflective belief fails to predict their observed behavior.  As Barrett puts it, \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 people have difficulty maintaining the integrity of their reflective theological co\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ncepts in rapid, real-time problem solving because of processing demands\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  (Barrett, 2004).  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 So while Barrett does not deny, as Rey does, that people }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 have }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 reflective beliefs, his findings do show that when attributing religious beliefs as psychological co\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nstructs we must be very careful about how, exactly, the relevant cognitive states function to produce behavior.  Ironically, however, despite the predictive validity of Barrett\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s distinction between reflective and nonreflective beliefs, Scott Atran point\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86  out a sense in which Barrett, too, fails to adequately characterize the functional role of belief.  Indeed, Atran argues for the insufficiency of \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 cognitivist\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  theories of religion in general, because they overlook the role of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 motivation}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  in the functionin\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 g of religious belief (Atran, 2002).  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Theories like Barrett\hich\f86 \rquote \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s, which only describe patterns of inference, or transitions from one cognitive state to another, do not address the conviction and commitment that religious beliefs often carry.  Religious beliefs can motivate people to endure great trials and perform ve\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 y costly behaviors, though they also motivate many more mundane behaviors.  So Barrett and Rey are right that it is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 necessary}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  for a representation\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s being a belief that it cause certain transitions from one cognitive state to another, but that is not suffi\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cient.  What Atran has noticed is that an adequate specification of the functional role of religious beliefs must include significant appeals to motivational capacities, in addition to cognitive capacities.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Many evolutionary theories of religion do addr\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ess various motivational aspects of religious belief in some way or other (Atran & Henrich, 2010; Norenzayan & Shariff, 2008; Ahmed, 2009; Irons, 2001; Sosis & Alcorta, 2003; Wilson, 2002; Haidt, 2012).  While some of these theories focus more on issues o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 f\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  motivation than others do, and while different theories emphasize different motivational processes, all are agreed that the relevant motivations are }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 social}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  motivations.  And all appeal in one way or another to cooperation as the general form of behavior t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 hat religious belief has been selected for.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Among this crowd, however, Jonathan Haidt\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s theory stands out, because it is by far the most comprehensive account of the motivational systems involved.  Indeed, the fundamental aim of Haidt\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s most recent book\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  is to characterize the affective systems of moral emotion from an evolu}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 tionary perspective (Haidt, 2012}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ).  As a result, his lengthy discussion of religion is embedded within a larger project focused directly upon the psychology of cooperative motivation. \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86  Haidt calls himself a \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 social intuitionist,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  and he has amassed a wealth of empirical data describing the affective nature of moral intuitions (Haidt & Joseph, 2004; Haidt & Bjorklund, 2008).  While cognitivist theories of religious belief make some impo\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 tant contributions, they need to be supplemented by theories like Haidt\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s, which address the motivational connections between the contents of religious representations and the overt behavior that they cause.\par \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Issue_V}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 5.  Religious Cognition:  Theory of Min\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 d or Teleology?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkend Issue_V}\par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 I mentioned above in Issue 1 what Pascal Boyer has called the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Standard Model\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  of religious explanation, according to which religious beliefs are evolutionary by-products of cognitive systems that perform more basic, non-religious f\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 unctions.  One of the earliest examples of the Standard Model is Stewart Guthrie\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 \hich\f86 s appeal to the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 hyperactive agency detection device\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  (HADD), a cognitive module that has the function of detecting agents in a risk-aversive manner that is biased toward fal\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 e positives (Guthrie, 1993).  This theory has many natural connections to an independent body of theory describing human capacities for representing the mental states of others.  This capacity is sometimes called \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 folk psychology,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86 \hich\f86  or \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 mentalizing,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  but i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86  perhaps most widely known now as \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 theory of mind\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  (ToM) (Leslie, 1994).  Standard Model theorists of religion have wasted no time in aligning the growing literature on ToM with Guthrie\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s HADD theory (Bering, 2002; Bloom, 2007).  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The result has been, I b\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 elieve, an unhealthy focus in the cognitive science of religion on explaining belief in supernatural agents.  What is unhealthy about this focus is that it conflates religious belief with specifically }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 theistic}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  belief.  While many Buddhist individuals may b\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 elieve in various gods or spirits for various reasons, the central Buddhist notion of Karma, and the role it plays in incentivizing ethical behavior, has nothing to do with the positing of supernatural }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 agents, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 even if Karma is a supernatural }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 force}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 .}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 This s\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ystem of beliefs is just the most obvious example of a religious system for which the relevant supernatural posits are not agents with minds.  \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Developmental psychologist Deb Keleman (Kelemen, 1999; 2004) describes a phenomenon she calls \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 promiscuous tele\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ology,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86 \hich\f86  according to which cognitive capacities for the explanation of intentional, goal-directed action are employed \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 promiscuously,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  causing people to revert to teleological forms of explanation for events that are not actually caused by agents.  This n\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 tion would explain the intuitive appeal of Aristotelian physics, for example, as well as the pre-Darwinian intuitions about design appealed to in William Paley\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s argument from design.  Psychologist Tania Lombrozo has further developed the psychological st\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 u\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 dy of teleological explanation, and she argues for a \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 causal-explanatory pluralism\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  that recognizes both teleological and non-teleological forms of causal ascription (Lombrozo, 2010).  Since any agent-based teleological explanation will still be a form of\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 teleological explanation, these ideas suggest a revision to the agent-centered theories favored in the Standard Model:  the cognitive biases that explain religiosity are not preferences for }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 mentalistic }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 explanations }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 per se}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , but are rather biases toward }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 tele\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ological }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 explanations more generally.  The prevalence of specifically mentalistic teleological explanations would then be explained as a side-effect of a preference for teleological explanation in general.  So religious belief has nothing to do with ToM ca\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 pacities }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 per se}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 .   \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Karma is not a notion based on the mind of a supernatural agent, but it incentivizes moral behavior by operating as a means to an end or goal:  the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 natural\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  goal of attaining nirvana.  Karma is posited as the causal link between compa\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ssionate behavior and attainment of this goal.  It thus functions in a goal-based, teleological view of the world.  But unlike the Christian worldview, the relevant goal-state (people\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s attainment of nirvana) is not the goal }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 some agent.  The Christian G\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 od }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cares}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  about humans, and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 wants }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 them to go to heaven.  But while there exist goals for human behavior to meet in the Buddhist system, there is no god that }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 has}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  these goals.   \par \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 It seems that in the excitement over ToM theory, the cognitive science of relig\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ion has simply overlooked promiscuous teleology as an alternative explanation for the formation of supernatural beliefs}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 in general, one that is not so narrowly focused on supernatural agents.  \par \par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs36\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Proposal}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Proposal{\*\bkmkend Proposal}\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs36\insrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 I.  Functionalism in the Science o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 f Religion\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb80\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 In his book }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Darwin\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s Cathedral}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 , biologist D. S. Wilson defends what he calls a \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 functionalist\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  account of religious belief and behavior (Wilson, 2002).  But he does not have in mind the kind of functionalism now prevalent in philosophy of mind. \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  Rather, Wilson invokes Durkheim, who saw religion as a social phenomenon, rather than a mental one, and who sought to explain it in terms of social function, rather than mental function (Durkheim, 1912).  On the surface, these two brands of functionalism\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 might appear to share nothing but a label, since functionalism in philosophy of mind purports to explain phenomena occurring at the level of single individuals, while Durkheim\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s social functionalism explained social facts that, he insisted, could not be r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 duced to facts about single individuals (Durkheim, 1895).  \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 But this appearance is deceiving.  For all of Wilson\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s explicit endorsement of Durkheim, his account is a psychological explanation, not a sociological one.  What Wilson explains as religious phen\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 omena are individual-level behaviors, and he explains them by appealing liberally to psychological mechanisms and processes occurring at the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 sub-}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 individual-level.  As a result, Wilson\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s functionalism in fact shares much more with a biologically oriented st\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 rain of functionalism in philosophy of mind than it does with Durkheim\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s social functionalism.  And seeing }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 how}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  it does is instructive, because it brings to the surface two tacit assumptions that are fundamental to any psychological theory based on evolutio\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nary principles.  These assumptions are (1) that psychological explanation proceeds by attributing functional capacities to individuals that are realized by internal mechanisms, systems and processes, and (2) that natural selection determines what those f\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 u\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nctions }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 are}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , or what the relevant mechanisms are }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 for}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 .  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Wilson, like everyone else seeking to exp\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 lain religious belief and behavior from an evolutionary perspective, is acting as a psychologist, and assuming that evolutionary processes play some role in psychological explanation.  This whole scientific enterprise is based on a certain kind of psychol\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 gical functionalism, and for good reasons.  Yet few of the scientists involved have a clear and consistent understanding of the nature of their own functionalist commitments. \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 As Robert Cummins (Cummins, 1975; 2000) and Noam Chomsky (Chomsky, 1959; 1976) h\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ave independently argued, psychological explanations are not like explanations in physics.  Psychology proceeds not by subsuming observations under law-like regularities, but by attributing capacities and functions realized by internal system and processe\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 .  According to Cummins, the basic explanatory strategy of psychology is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 functional analysis}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 , according to which the explanation of \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 bigger,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86 \hich\f86  more complex capacities is achieved by decomposing them into \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 smaller,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  less complex capacities.  Vision, for exam\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ple, is a \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 big\u8221\'d3\loch\f86 \hich\f86  functional capacity, and explaining it involves analyzing it into \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 smaller\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  sub-functions, like color constancy, depth perception, edge detection and motion detection.  It assumed these days that internal, neural systems realize these sub-\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 f\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 unctions, and that by working in concert they collectively realize the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 big\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  capacity for vision. \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 But how are all these functions and sub-functions to be identified and individuated?  One method is simply to rely on intuition.  Imagine finding an obscure \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 tool in an old, abandoned house.  It would be natural to wonder what the tool is for, and to generate an intuitive hypothesis or two in an effort to \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 reverse engineer\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  it.  But in the absence of any further information about where the tool came from, one\hich\f86 \rquote \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  intuitive hypotheses are all she\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s got.  There is no way to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 test}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  these intuitions against empirical facts.  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 But now imagine running across the same tool in a marketplace.  After forming an intuitive hypothesis, one can then test this}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 hypothesis by simply\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  asking the salesperson what the artifact was designed for.  The history of design, whereby certain features of the artifact were selected according to the goals of the human designer, would determine the artifact\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s function.\par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 In psychology, however, what o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ne is attempting to reverse engineer are not artifacts designed by people, but naturally occurring functions and capacities that have not been designed according to the goals of any agent.  Since the teleological attributions specifying what these capacit\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 es are for cannot be derived from the subjective goals and intentions of any agent, where do they come from?  If one generates an intuitive functionalist hypothesis in this context, against what empirical facts can it be tested? \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 As cognitive anthropologis\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t Pascal Boyer notes in his }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Religion Explained}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , Durkheim\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 \hich\f86 s social functionalism fell out of favor with anthropologists largely because it had no answer to this question (Boyer, 2001).  \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Functionalism,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86 \hich\f86  he explains, \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 was accused of peddling ad hoc stories. \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86  Anyone with enough ingenuity could find some sort of social function for any cultural institution.\u8221\'d3\loch\f86   Social functionalism has no empirical theory of the functions it posits, no theory about how observable facts determine what something is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 for}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 .  As a resul\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t, if two theorists offer competing functional analyses for the same phenomenon, there are no observations to check them against, and there is just a stand-off between intuitive hypotheses.  In philosophy in general this may not seem an embarrassing situa\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ion, but that is because philosophy in general addresses many questions to which empirical observations are not relevant.  That is obviously not the case for any }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 scientific}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  investigation.  Boyer\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s point is that because social functionalism is based on noth\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ing but functionalist intuition, it is too loose and unconstrained.  It is functionalist explanation run amok.      \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 As Wilson recognizes, his own theory could solve this problem for Durkheim.  But as he fails to recognize, this is what makes Wilson\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s form\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  of functionalism nothing like Durkheim\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s.  Wilson, along with everyone else offering an evolutionary account of the religious belief and behavior of individuals, is in fact employing a psychological form of functionalism championed by evolution-minded ph\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 losophers of mind like Millikan (1984), Dennett (1987; 1991) and Lycan (1981).  This brand of functionalism, which I will call \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 evolutionary functionalism,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  insists on attributing functional capacities on the basis of empirical facts about selection histo\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 r\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 y.  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86      Following the methods of evolutionary biology more generally, evolutionary functionalism maintains that what a functional system is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 for }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 is determined by what it has been }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 selected for}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , just as what an artifact is for is determined by what it has been selected for (Dennett, 1987).  On this view, the difference between artificial functions and naturally occurring psychological functions is a difference between two types of selection pro\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 c\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ess.  But in both cases the attribution of functions rests on empirical facts about selection history. \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 For those who accept that psychological functions are realized by neural systems subject to influence by natural selection\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 and this includes everyone cu\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 rrently studying religious belief and behavior scientifically\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 evolutionary theory affords an empirical}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 basis for identifying and individuating the functional capacities that provide psychological explanations.  Thus, the problem of functionalism run amok c\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 an be solved, because functionalist hypotheses can be constrained by empirical facts.  I doubt the empirical adequacy of Wilson\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s theory, but my point here is that it is nevertheless the right }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 kind }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 of theory.  Because it aims to explain and predict the act\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ivities of internal psychological systems by appealing to the selection history of those systems, Wilson\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s theory, unlike Durkheim\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s, provides empirical facts against which theorists can test their teleological attributions.\par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Cummins and Chomsky, along with\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  most practicing psychologists outside the study of religion, do not emphasize the relationship between evolution and functional ascription.  But I assume they are right to say that psychological explanation proceeds by positing functional capacities real\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 zed by internal mechanisms and processes.  If so, then the very nature of the investigation of religion as a psychological phenomenon already commits the theorist to teleological attributions specifying what these functional capacities are }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 for}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 .  But if one\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  is committed to making such teleological attributions anyway, and has available empirical facts capable of guiding and constraining these attributions, then it is simply unscientific to ignore those facts.  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 I take these to be perfectly good assumptions t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 hat are }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 mostly }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 adhered to in the scientific study of religious belief and behavior.  But for practicing scientists engaged in an interdisciplinary investigation, these foundational assumptions lie under the basement and out of sight, and this can lead to c\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 onfusion, needless debate and the pursuit of fruitless lines of research.  I aim to make explicit what the explanatory strategy of evolutionary functionalism actually is, in hopes that this will make it more clear how to adhere to these good assumptions c\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 nsistently, in a way that efficiently guides scientific research.  I outline below two general ways in which such confusions arise.\par \par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Confusion_1}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 II.  Genetic Selection (in Particular) vs. Selection History (in General){\*\bkmkend Confusion_1}\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb80\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 One way in which confusion\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  and needless debate result from inconsistencies in the framework of evolutionary functionalism can be seen in debates over the role of genetic selection in psychology.  One source of debate here results from the conflation of three questions that are log\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cally distinct, but psychologically quite intimately related:  \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1) Is religious belief an adaptation?  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (2) Is religious belief adaptive?  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (3) Is religious belief functional?\par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Whether or not a psychological trait is adaptive is not a historical question, \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 and thus it is not a question for which appeal to selection history is relevant.  A focus on history is something questions (1) and (3) share that question (2) does not.  But questions (1) and (2) also share something that (3) does }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 share:  a focus on g\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 enetic inheritance.  Evolutionary functionalism, like the concept of evolution more generally, is based on }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 historical change over time, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 and genetic selection is just one source of such change.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86   }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Unlike evolution in general, however, evolutionary functionali\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 sm}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 is based specifically on historical change due to selection processes.  But it is selection }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 in general}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , rather than genetic selection in particular, that is important, because it is the logic of selection-}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 for}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  that gives teleological content to functiona\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 l ascriptions.  Consequently, non-genetic selection processes may also be important.\par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 When ontogenetic development is sensitive to environmental input, some courses of development are selected over alternatives by environmental conditions.  I call this }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 onto\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 genetic selection}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 , and, as the idiom \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 trial and error\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  suggests, it applies to learning in addition to other forms of selective development.  In learning, some forms of cognition and behavior are selected over alternatives.  Further, when one acquires a le\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 arned capacity, the selected forms of cognition }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 and\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 behavior specify what that capacity is a capacity }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 for}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 .  And psychological functions specified by this selection process are important }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 compliments}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  to the functions specified by genetic selection, because they \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 make these specifications more specific.  Genetic selection is responsible for innate capacities to learn language, for example, but genetic selection is not responsible for my capacity to speak English, specifically.  My ability to learn some language or\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 other is shared universally with other humans, and this universality is explained by a shared history of genetic selection.  But I only share my }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 English}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 -speaking capacities with individuals who share with me}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 a history of ontogenetic selection.  The same is\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  true of learned capacities quite generally, including those we learn from other people.  And this includes, of course, those comprising religious traditions.  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 To be sure, many}{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 psychological capacities are not developmentally flexible and not subject to o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ntogenetic selection.  But it is hardly plausible that religious belief and behavior can be explained entirely by appeal to only these capacities.  It is hard to imagine that religious traditions are not literally traditions, based on social learning.  Ye\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86  this is explicitly denied by the framework that Boyer has called the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Standard Model\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  of evolutionary explanation in the psychology of religion.  By leaving it an open empirical question to what extent genetic and ontogenetic factors explain religious ps\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 y}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 chology, evolutionary func}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 i}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 onalism conflicts with the Standard Model\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s commitment to genetic selection, even though Standard Model theorists are in other ways deeply committed to the principles of evolutionary functionalism.  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 It could be that the Standard Model\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s prejudice against cultural learning will turn out to be right, empirically.  But it seems far more likely that Standard Model theorists have simply gone overboard in their enthusiasm for applying evolutionary theory t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  social science.  Here is an important sense in which making explicit the commitments of evolutionary functionalism can help us distinguish healthy forms of evolutionary explanation from more confused and prejudicial varieties. \par \par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Confusion_2}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 III. The Psych\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ological Nature of Religious Belief{\*\bkmkend Confusion_2}\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sb80\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 A different reason for being clear about the nature of the functionalist approach employed in the study of religion is that explanations of religious behavior rely heavily on appeals to religious }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 belief, }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 and i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t can be quite hard to tell exactly what set of psychological capacities is being attributed to a religious believer.  Beliefs are psychological constructs\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86  unobservable theoretical posits that explain observable behavior.  But they are }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 folk}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 -psychological \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 constructs, and they do not map in clear or obvious ways onto the functional analyses offered by scientific psychology.  To have a belief is itself to possess a certain capacity to behave in a certain way, and it is entirely consistent with ordinary attri\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 b\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 utions of belief that beliefs be realized by some internal, functional system or other.  But belief attributions themselves do not suggest anything at all about the functional organization of the internal systems that realize them.  \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi360\li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Accordingly, it is imp\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ortant to think critically about the psychological nature of belief attribution, and to understand what psychological capacities are being attributed when individuals are said to hold religious beliefs.  For example, cognition is a capacity for representa\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ion, and that capacity is an essential component of belief.  But beliefs are not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 just }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 representations, even if they essentially involve representational contents, and so an attribution of belief is not }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 just}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  an attribution of certain cognitive capacities.  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 By merely entertaining the wild ideas of some exotic religion, I can exhibit the same }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cognition}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  as its followers, even if I don\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 believe}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  any of that representational content.  In such a case, the same cognitive capacities operate very differently in the p\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 sychology of believers and non-believers, and explaining what distinguishes believers from non-believers will require the identification of }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 non}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 -cognitive psychological capacities. \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Unfortunately, but perhaps not surprisingly, those most wont to conflate re\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ligious cognition with religious belief appear to be those most focused on explaining religious cognition.  Researchers like anthropologist Pascal Boyer, anthropologist Stewart Guthrie, and psychologist Justin Barrett, who are influential pioneers in the \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 s\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 ub-field often called the \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 cognitive science of religion,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  take themselves to be explaining religious belief (Boyer, 2001; Guthrie, 2003; Barrett, 2004).  Their explanations focus on automatic and unreflective inferences that people make as a result of th\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  operation of innate cognitive modules.  For example, Boyer argues that we are biologically predisposed to categorize animals into species, such that upon learning that one member of a species lays eggs, we infer automatically and intuitively that other m\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 mbers do too.  But as Scott Atran points out, these inferences do not distinguish religious belief from the counterfactual cognition of fiction (Atran, 2002).  Inference patterns that describe transitions from one cognitive state to another describe cogni\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ion, but they do not distinguish representations that function as }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 beliefs}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  from representations that people merely }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 entertain,}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  hypothetically.  As a result, they fail to explain religious belief.\par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 This difference between what we really believe and what we mer\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ely entertain hypothetically is of course an important psychological difference that has nothing in particular to do with religion.  It is also what explains, for example, the difference between a scientific hypothesis and a scientific belief.  This shows\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 that }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 acceptance }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 is an essential component of belief, since acceptance is what transforms a mere hypothesis into a genuine belief in the mind of an individual.  And this transformation is not explained by appeal to the cognition of the agent; the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 contents}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 f a scientific hypothesis do not change when that hypothesis is accepted as a belief.  What changes, rather, are the functional relationships between the relevant cognitive systems and the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 other}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  systems involved in explaining the role this cognition plays \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 in producing observable behavior.   \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 More specifically, the changes that occur when representations are accepted as beliefs are realized by systems that are motivational in nature, rather than cognitive.  In its more exaggerated forms, we think of such acc\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 eptance as commitment, conviction or even zeal.  What distinguishes belief from merely hypothetical representation is the fact that the predictions we make on the basis of beliefs actually influence our motivated behaviors.  If I am not actually convinced\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 by my friend\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s claims about the efficacy of some medicine, then the content of those claims will not motivate my therapeutic actions, because it will not lead me to predict that taking the medicine will produce a state of affairs I am motivated to bring a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 b\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 out.  And while beliefs about gods and spirits can motivate people to do incredible things\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 even at great cost to themselves\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 the contents of fictional narratives that are entertained hypothetically do not normally motivate people to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 do }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 much of anything at a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ll (except to go on reading).  This is because no one uses fictional content to predict what will happen in their actual environment, or to predict what the consequences of their actions will be.  \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Given the psychological nature of belief in general, relig\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ious belief can only be explained by appealing to }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 both }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 representational }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 and }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 motivational capacities.  Insofar as the cognitive science of religion limits itself to the study of cognition alone, it will fail to explain religious belief.  And insofar as we w\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ant to explain religious belief, the study of the affective and motivational systems involved will be as essential as the study of the cognitive systems involved.\par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl360\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Chapter_Outline}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chapter 1:  Introduction\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 Evolutionary Functionalism in the Psychology of Rel\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 igion{\*\bkmkend Chapter_Outline}\par \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 While the current scientific literature on the psychology of religion is dominated by evolutionary approaches, it displays a striking diversity of ways to bend evolutionary theory to psychological purposes.  Some of these ways are bet\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ter than others, and by drawing on literature in philosophy of mind and philosophy of psychology I will outline the fundamental commitments of what I call evolutionary functionalism, a single, coherent framework for studying religious psychology from an e\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 v\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 olutionary framework. \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chapter 2:  The Role of Culture in Religion\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 In an effort to make the study of religion more naturalistic, many researchers in this area have overemphasized the role of genetic selection in the theoretical framework that guides thei\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 r empirical observations.  While the framework of evolutionary functionalism that I defend considers genetic selection an essential part of the story, it also illustrates the role of learning, including cultural learning, in religious psychology.  The rel\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 tive importance of genetic and cultural factors, I argue, is not something that should be determined }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 prior}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  to observation by one\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s theoretical framework.  It is, rather, an empirical question, and should be determined by the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 results}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  of observation.  The up\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 shot is that cultural learning is likely to be a more important part of an evolutionary account of religion than many researchers recognize.  \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chapter 3:  The Psychological Nature of Religious Belief\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Religious belief is not like ordinary belief in some i\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 nteresting ways.  Indeed, Georges Rey suggests that, from a psychological perspective, religious \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 beliefs\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  shouldn\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 t be considered beliefs at all.  Here I apply the framework developed in previous chapters to the question of how religious belief relates t\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  ordinary belief.  I argue that religious belief is special in both its cognitive and its motivational components.  It is cognitively special because it is based specifically on teleological explanations and representations of the world.  It is motivation\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 a\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 lly special because the }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 acceptance }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 of religious beliefs is based on social motivations that perform cooperative functions.  On the basis of this characterization, I will argue that while Rey might be right about }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 some}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86  religious \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 beliefs,\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  other religious be\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 liefs should be considered genuine beliefs.\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chapter 4:  Morality and Religious Motivation\par \tab }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 In Chapter 3 I will argue that acceptance of religious beliefs results from social motivations that function to facilitate cooper\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ation.  Here I will argue that this explains why religion and morality are so intimately connected in human psychology.  I distinguish }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 pro}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 social motivations from }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 social}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  motivations.  Prosocial motivations have been selected to facilitate cooperation in con\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 texts where there is some question of selfishness or free-riding, while social motivations facilitate cooperation in contexts like reciprocal relationships, where there is no question of selfishness or free-riding.  Religious beliefs, I argue, increase }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 pro}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 social motivation, rather than social motivation, and their functional role in making one\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s motivations sensitive to the interests of one\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s fellow group members explains why religious beliefs figure heavily in the moral psychology of believers.\par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chapter 5:\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86   Teleology and Religious Cognition\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 While Chapter 4 focuses on what is distinctly religious about religious motivation, this chapter focuses on what is distinctly religious about religious cognition.  While it is widely agreed in the cognitive science of \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 religion that hyperactive agency detection explains belief in supernatural agents, I would argue that this is merely a symptom of a more fundamental pattern.  Representation of the world in terms of agents\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86  desires is }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 one}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  form of teleological reasoning, bu\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t other religious beliefs, like Karma, engage teleological reasoning systems without appealing to the desires of supernatural agents.  Appealing to an existing literature on }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 promiscuous teleology}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , I argue that the supernatural beliefs of religion are the result of hyperactive teleological reasoning in general, rather than hyperactive detection of agents, in particular.  \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chapter 6:  Conclusion\hich\f86 \emdash \loch\f86 Religious Belief as an Exaptation\par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \tab \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Bringing together \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 arguments about what is distinctly religious about religious cognition and motivation respectively, I offer a speculative historical claim explaining why those capacities come together in a package.  I suggest that religious belief is an }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 exaptation}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , a trai\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t that originally evolved to perform one function, but that has more recently been selected to perform a new function.  Specifically, I hypothesize that capacities for teleological reasoning originally evolved for the explanation and prediction of animal \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 b\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ehavior, but have more recently acquired the quite different function of motivating cooperation.    \par \par }\pard \ltrpar\qc \li0\ri0\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \page }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ab\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \b\fs36\insrsid15483434 {\*\bkmkstart Bibliography}\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Bibliography{\*\bkmkend Bibliography}\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\sl288\slmult1\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Atran, S. (2002). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 In gods we trust: The evolutionary landscape of religion}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Oxford University Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Atr\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 an, S., & Henrich, J. (2010). The evolution of religion: how cognitive by-products, adaptive learning heuristics, ritual displays, and group competition generate deep commitments to prosocial religions. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Biological Theory}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 5}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1), 18\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 30.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Barrett, J. L. (2004\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Why Would Anyone Believe in God?}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  Plymouth: AltaMira Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Bateson, M., Nettle, D., & Roberts, G. (2006). Cues of being watched enhance cooperation in a real-world setting. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Biology Letters}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 2}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (3), 412\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 414. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Bering, J. M. (2002). The existential theory of mind. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Review of General Psychology}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 6}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1), 3\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 24. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Bloom, P. (2007). Religion is natural. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Developmental Science}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 10}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1), 147\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 151. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Boyd, R., & Richerson, P. J. (1995). Why does culture increase human adaptabil\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ity? }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Ethology and Sociobiology}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 16}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (2), 125\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 143. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Boyd, R. & Richerson, P. J. (1985). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Culture and the Evolutionary Process. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Boyd, R. & Richerson, P. J. (2005). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Not By Genes Alone}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Chicago: The University of Chicag\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 o Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Boyd, R., & Richerson, P. J. (2006). Culture, adaptation and innateness. In P. Carruthers, S. Laurence, & S. Stich (Eds.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The Innate Mind Vol. 2:  Culture and Cognition}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  (pp. 23\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 28). New York: Oxford University Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Boyer, P. (2001). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Religion \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Explained: The Evolutionary Origins of Religious Thought}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Basic Books.\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li40\ri-720\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin-720\lin40\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\insrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Boyer, P. (2005). A reductionist model of distinct modes of religious transmission. In H. Whitehouse & R. N. McCauley (Eds.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Mind and Religion: Psychological and Cognitive F\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 oundations of Religiosity}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Lanham: Altamira Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chomsky, N. (1959). Verbal behavior. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Language}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 35}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1), 26\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 58.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Chomsky, N. (1976). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Reflections on Language}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . London: Temple Smith.\par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri-720\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Dennett, D. C. (1987). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The Intentional Stance}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Cambridge: MIT Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Dennett, D. C. (1991). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Consciousness Explained}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Back Bay Books.\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Dennet, D. C. (2006). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Breaking the Spell:  Religion as a Natural Phenomenon}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Viking Penguin.\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri-720\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin-720\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Durkheim, E. (1995). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The Elementary Forms of Religious Life}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Free P\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ress. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Evans-Pritchard, E. (1956). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Nuer Religion}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Oxford: Oxford University Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Evans-Pritchard, E. (1965). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Theories of primitive religion}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Oxford: Oxford University Press.\par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Guthrie, S. E. (1993). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Faces in the Clouds: A New Theory of Religion. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Oxford \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 University Press, \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Oxford.\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Haidt, J., & Joseph, C. (2004). Intuitive ethics: How innately prepared intuitions generate culturally variable virtues. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Daedalus}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 133}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (4), 55\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 66. \par \par }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Haidt, Jonathan. (2012}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The Righteous Mind}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Pantheon Books.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Haidt, Jonathan, & Bjorklund, F. (2008). Social Intuitionists Answer Six Questions about Moral Psychology. In W. Sinnott-Armstrong (Ed.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Moral Psychology Vol. 2:  The Cognitive Science of Morality:  Intuition and Diversity}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Cambridge: MIT Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Hamilton\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , W. D. (1964). The genetical evolution of social behaviour, I. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Journal of Theoretical Biology}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 7}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1), 1\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 16. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Holden, C., & Mace, R. (2009). Phylogenetic analysis of the evolution of lactose digestion in adults. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Human Biology}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 81}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (5/6), 597\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 619. \par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri-720\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin-720\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Hume, D. \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1992). J. Fieser (Ed.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The Natural History of Religion}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Macmillan.\par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Hume, D. (1993). Dialogues concerning natural religion. In J. A. C. Gaskin (Ed.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Dialogues and Natural History of Religion.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  New York: Oxford University Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Irons, W. (2001\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ). Religion as a hard-to-fake sign of commitment. In R. M. Nesse (Ed.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Evolution and the Capacity for Commitment}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , 292\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 309. New York: Russell Sage Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 James, W. (2004). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Varieties of Religious Experience. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 New York: Touchstone.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Kelemen, D. (1999). The s\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 cope of teleological thinking in preschool children. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Cognition}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 70}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (3), 241\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 272. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Kelemen, D. (2004). Are Children \u8220\'d2\loch\f86 \hich\f86 Intuitive Theists?\u8221\'d3\loch\f86  }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Psychological Science}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 15}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (5), 295. SAGE Publications.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Laland, K. N., Odling-Smee, J., & Myles, S. (2010). How culture shaped the human genome: bringing genetics and the human sciences together. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Nature Reviews Genetics}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 11}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (2), 137\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 148. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Laland, K. N., Sterelny, K., Odling-Smee, J., Hoppitt, W., & Uller, T. (2\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 011). Cause and effect in biology revisited: Is Mayr's proximate-ultimate dichotomy still useful? }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Science}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 334}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (6062), 1512\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 1516.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Leslie, A. M. (1994). Pretending and believing: Issues in the theory of ToMM. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Cognition}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 50}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1-3), 211\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 238. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Lombrozo, T. (201\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 0). Causal\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 explanatory pluralism: How intentions, functions, and mechanisms influence causal ascriptions. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Cognitive Psychology}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 61}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (4), 303\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 332. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Norenzayan, A., & Shariff, A. F. (2008). The origin and evolution of religious prosociality. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Science}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 322}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (5898\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ), 58. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Powell, R., & Clarke, S. (2012). Religion as an Evolutionary Byproduct: A Critique of the Standard Model. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The British Journal for the Philosophy of Science}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 0}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . doi:10.1093/bjps/axr035\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Rappaport, R. (1999). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Ritual and Religion in the Making of Hum\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 anity}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Raymond, M., & Roes, F. (2003). Belief in moralizing gods. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Evolution and Human Behavior}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 24}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , 126\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 135.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Rey, G. (2005). Meta-atheism: Religious avowal as self-deception. In L. Antony (Ed.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Philosophers Withou\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 t Gods: Meditations on Atheism and the Secular Life}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Oxford University Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Sosis, R. (2009). The adaptationist-byproduct debate on the evolution of religion: Five misunderstandings of the adaptationist program. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Journal of Cognition and Cultur\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 9}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (3), 315\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 332. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Sosis, R., & Alcorta, C. (2003). Signaling, solidarity, and the sacred: The evolution of religious behavior. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Evolutionary Anthropology: Issues, News, and Reviews}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 12}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (6), 264\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 274. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Sperber, D. (1996). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Explaining Culture}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Malden: Blackwe\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 ll Publishers, Inc.\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Sripada, C. (2008). Adaptationism, culture, and the malleability of human nature. In P. Carruthers, S. Laurence, & S. Stich (Eds.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The Innate Mind Vol. 3:  Foundations and the Future}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Oxford University Press.\par \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0\pararsid15483434 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Sterelny, K. (2003). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Thought in a Hostile World}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Malden: Blackwell Publishing Ltd.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434\charrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Tooby, J., & Cosmides, L. (1989). Evolutionary psychology and the generation of culture, part I: Theoretical considerations. }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Ethology and Sociobiology}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 , }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 10}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 (1-3), 29\hich\f86 \endash \loch\f86 49. \par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 To\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 oby, J. & Cosmides, L. (1992). The psychological foundations of culture. In J. H. Barkow, L. Cosmides & J. Tooby (Eds.), }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 The Adapted Mind: Evolutionary Psychology and the Generation of Culture.}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86  New York: Oxford University Press.\par \par \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Tylor, E. (1871). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Primitiv\hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 e Culture}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . New York: Harper.\par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \li0\ri-1440\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin-1440\lin0\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af0 \ltrch\fcs0 \f0\insrsid15483434 \par }\pard \ltrpar\ql \fi-400\li400\ri0\widctlpar\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\wrapdefault\faauto\rin0\lin400\itap0 {\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Wilson, D. S. (2002). }{\rtlch\fcs1 \ai\af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \i\insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 Darwin\hich\f86 \rquote \loch\f86 s Cathedral: Evolution, Religion and the Nature of Society}{\rtlch\fcs1 \af86 \ltrch\fcs0 \insrsid15483434 \hich\af86\dbch\af86\loch\f86 . Chicago:  University of Chicago Press.\par \par }{\*\themedata 504b0304140006000800000021001b898e1bfe0000001c020000130000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6cac91cf6ac3300cc6ef83bd83f175244e77186324e961ed6efb73e81e40384a6296c8c6564bfbf653d216c62885c12e0659d2f7fd2495cbfd38a81dc6e43c557a91175a2159df38ea2afdb979c91eb54a0cd4c0e0092b7dc0a497f5ed4db939044c4aba2955ba670e4fc624dbe30829f7014932ad8f23b084b13301ec177468ee8be2c1584f8cc4194f1aba2e57d8c27660b5decbf79144dab57a3ed64d5695861006678105d44c595397ef021e5d83ea0322bfc128558605017fbe8bfcbad68e9a5fc0996f5b67b1f1763b0a663e4bdefdc5f31548868dffe37c123b035c5856c4215dd9d685094fe7c8a573de68ea5d48670733dfb6fe060000ffff0300504b030414000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b0000005f72656c732f2e72656c73848fcf6ac3300c87ef85bd83d17d51d2c31825762fa590432fa37d00e1287f68221bdb1bebdb4fc7060abb0884a4eff7a93dfeae8bf9e194e720169aaa06c3e2433fcb68e1763dbf7f82c985a4a725085b787086a37bdbb55fbc50d1a33ccd311ba548b63095120f88d94fbc52ae4264d1c910d24a45db3462247fa791715fd71f989e19e0364cd3f51652d73760ae8fa8c9ffb3c330cc9e4fc17faf2ce545046e37944c69e462a1a82fe353bd90a865aad41ed0b5b8f9d6fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c0000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c0ccc4d0ac3201040e17da17790d93763bb284562b2cbaebbf600439c1a41c7a0d29fdbd7e5e38337cedf14d59b4b0d592c9c070d8a65cd2e88b7f07c2ca71ba8da481cc52c6ce1c715e6e97818c9b48d13df49c873517d23d59085adb5dd20d6b52bd521ef2cdd5eb9246a3d8b4757e8d3f729e245eb2b260a0238fd010000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021009d5c8bbe10070000871d0000160000007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6cec594f6f1b4514bf23f11d467b6f13274e9a4475aad8b109b469a3d82dea71bc3bf64e33bbb39a1927f10db547242444411ca8c48d03022ab51297f269024550a47e05deccecae77e271e39400153487d63bfb7b6fdefbbd3ff367af5e3b4e183a2442529e3682dae5c5009134e4114d878de076af73692d4052e134c28ca7a4118c890cae6dbefbce55bca162921004f2a9dcc08d20562adb585890210c63799967248577032e12ace0510c1722818f406fc2169616175717124cd300a53801b5b706031a12d4d32a83cd42799bc163aaa41e0899e86ad5c49130d8e8a0a611722c5b4ca043cc1a01cc13f1a31e39560162582a78d10816cd5fb0b07975016fe4424ccd90adc875cc5f2e970b44074b664e31ec9793d63af5f52bdba57e03606a1ad76eb75bed5aa9cf00701882a7d696aace7a67add62c745640f6e7b4eed6e2ca62ddc557f42f4fd9bcde6c3657d6735bac5203b23feb53f8b5c5d5fad6928337208b5f99c2d79b5badd6aa8337208b5f9dc277aeacafd65dbc01c58ca60753681dd04e27d75e42069ced78e16b005f5bcce113146443995d7a8a014fd5ac5c4bf03d2e3a00d04086154d911a67648043c8e21666b42fa89e006f105c796387423935a4e742321434538de0830c43454cf4bd7cf6ddcb674fd0c9fda727f77f3c79f0e0e4fe0f569123b583d36155eac5379ffef1e823f4fb93af5f3cfcdc8f9755fc2fdf7ffcf34f9ff981503e13739e7ff1f8d7a78f9f7ff9c96fdf3ef4c0b704ee57e13d9a10896e9223b4cf1370ccb0e25a4efae27c12bd18d3aac4563a9438c57a168ffeb68a1df4cd3166d8836b1297c13b02da870ff8dee89e637037162395c7dbf1ec7a9c38c05dce59930b2f0bd7f55c159a7ba374e89f5c8caab87d8c0f7d73b770eac4b73dcaa06f529fca564c1c33f7184e151e929428a4dff103423c7cdda5d4e1759786824b3e50e82e454d4cbd94f468dfc9a689d00e4d202e639f81106f879bdd3ba8c999cfeb6d72e822a12a30f318df23cca1f13d3c5238f1a9ece1845509bf8155ec33b23b166115d7960a223d248ca37644a4f4c9dc12e06f25e8d7a175f8c3becbc6898b148a1ef874dec09c5791dbfca015e324f361bb348dabd8f7e501a428467b5cf9e0bbdcad10fd0c71c0e9cc70dfa1c409f7d9dde0361d3a264d1244bf19091d4b68d54e074e68faaa769c4037ceddb9b8760c0df0f9578f3c99f5a636e22d20c157093ba7daef2cdce9a6dbe222a26f7ecfddc6a3748f409a4f2f3c6f5beedb961bfce75beeac7a9eb7d14e7a2bb45dbdbdb19b62b3454e66ee900794b1ae1a3372439a4db2847522eac0a09633a743529e98b2187ee67dddc10d0536324870f521557137c6196cb06b81563294b9eaa144199770b033c35edd1a0f9b74658f852bfac060fb81c46a97477678590f17e782528d596d86e6f0594cb4ac15cc3bd9f2955c29b8fd3a93d5b45173cf5633a69956e7cc56ba0c319c760d064b3661038260db022cafc2f95c4f0d0713cc48a479b76b6f11161385bf2744b9d7d6911847c486c819aeb05933b12b52c85c10404a7942773e364bd680b4b38d3069313b7fe624b95030215997dda96a6269b5b6588a8e1ac1facad24a80429c3582011c49e1679241d0a4deb26136847b9d50099bb567d6a229d289c7ebfeacaac12dc38c8271ca3813526d6319db189a5779a858aa67b2f62fadd475b25d8c0336515fc38ae53548917fcd0a08b51b5a3218905055835d19d1dcd9c7bc13f29122a21b4747a8cf46621f43f88153ed4f4425dc2c9882d60f700da6d936afdcde9a779aeae593c1d971ccb218e7dd525fa3141567e1a6de4a1bcc53c53cf0cd6bbb71eefcaee88abf2857aa69fc3f73452f0770d05f8e740442b8851518e97a6d045ca8984317ca621a7604acfba67740b6c0552abc06f2e12ed8fc2fc8a1fedfd69cd561ca1ace6b6a9f0e91a0b09ca85810b2076dc964df19ca6af9d26355b25c91c9a88ab932b366f7c921613ddd0357750f0e500ca96eba49de060cee74feb9cf7905f5877a8f52ad37a787944ba7ad817f7ae3628b199c3ab597d0f95bf05f9ae859fdacbc112fd6c8aa23fac56497542faac259fcd6d7f3a95ed3847916e0ca5a6b3bd694c74b2b857110c5698f61b0dccf64705d83f43fb0fe511132fb61412fa83dbe0fbd15c17702cb1f82acbea4bb1a64906e90f6571ff63d76d026935665a9cd773e9ab562b1bee08d6a39ef29b2b565f3c4fb9c64979b28773aa7162f92ec9c61876b3b36936a88ece91285a141710e3181315fa4aa1f8d78ff1e047a1baee747cc7e4692193c993ac8f684c9ae3e8fc6f94f26ed826bb34e9f613492a5fb648068745c9c3f4a266c09d94f19c516d9a0b5984eb45270d97768700573bc16b5ab6529bc74b67029616686965d0a9b1b329f02f89095376e7db403bc6db2d66b5d5c05532cfd2b94cd61bc9f32efc9675ecaec41f195817a0dcad4f1ab29cb9902f2a6130f3e450a0c4793aee9bfb0e8d84c3729bbf927000000ffff0300504b0304140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b010000270000007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73848f4d0ac2301484f78277086f6fd3ba109126dd88d0add40384e4350d363f2451eced0dae2c082e8761be9969bb979dc9136332de3168aa1a083ae995719ac16db8ec8e4052164e89d93b64b060828e6f37ed1567914b284d262452282e3198720e274a939cd08a54f980ae38a38f56e422a3a641c8bbd048f7757da0f19b017cc524bd62107bd5001996509affb3fd381a89672f1f165dfe514173d9850528a2c6cce0239baa4c04ca5bbabac4df000000ffff0300504b01022d00140006000800000021001b898e1bfe0000001c0200001300000000000000000000000000000000005b436f6e74656e745f54797065735d2e786d6c504b01022d0014000600080000002100a5d6a7e7c0000000360100000b000000000000000000000000002f0100005f72656c732f2e72656c73504b01022d00140006000800000021006b799616830000008a0000001c00000000000000000000000000180200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021009d5c8bbe10070000871d00001600000000000000000000000000d50200007468656d652f7468656d652f7468656d65312e786d6c504b01022d00140006000800000021000dd1909fb60000001b0100002700000000000000000000000000190a00007468656d652f7468656d652f5f72656c732f7468656d654d616e616765722e786d6c2e72656c73504b050600000000050005005d010000140b00000000}{\*\colorschememapping 3c3f786d6c2076657273696f6e3d22312e302220656e636f64696e673d225554462d3822207374616e64616c6f6e653d22796573223f3e0d0a3c613a636c724d617020786d6c6e733a613d22687474703a2f2f736368656d61732e6f70656e786d6c666f726d6174732e6f72672f64726177696e676d6c2f323030362f6d61696e22206267313d226c743122207478313d22646b3122206267323d226c743222207478323d22646b322220616363656e74313d22616363656e74312220616363656e74323d22616363656e74322220616363656e74333d22616363656e74332220616363656e74343d22616363656e74342220616363656e74353d22616363656e74352220616363656e74363d22616363656e74362220686c696e6b3d22686c696e6b2220666f6c486c696e6b3d22666f6c486c696e6b222f3e}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax276\lsdlockeddef0\lsdsemihiddendef1\lsdunhideuseddef1\lsdqformatdef0\lsdprioritydef99{\lsdlockedexcept \lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority0 \lsdlocked0 Normal;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 1;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 2;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 3;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 4;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 5;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 6;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 7;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 8;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority9 \lsdlocked0 heading 9;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 1;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 2;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 3;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 4;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 5;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 6;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 7;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 8;\lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 toc 9;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority35 \lsdlocked0 caption;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority10 \lsdlocked0 Title;\lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 Default Paragraph Font;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority11 \lsdlocked0 Subtitle;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority22 \lsdlocked0 Strong;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority20 \lsdlocked0 Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority59 \lsdlocked0 Table Grid;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Placeholder Text;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority1 \lsdlocked0 No Spacing;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 1;\lsdunhideused0 \lsdlocked0 Revision;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority34 \lsdlocked0 List Paragraph;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority29 \lsdlocked0 Quote;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority30 \lsdlocked0 Intense Quote;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 1;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 2;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 3;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 4;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 5;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority60 \lsdlocked0 Light Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority61 \lsdlocked0 Light List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority62 \lsdlocked0 Light Grid Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority63 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority64 \lsdlocked0 Medium Shading 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority65 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority66 \lsdlocked0 Medium List 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority67 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 1 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority68 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 2 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority69 \lsdlocked0 Medium Grid 3 Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority70 \lsdlocked0 Dark List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority71 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Shading Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority72 \lsdlocked0 Colorful List Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdpriority73 \lsdlocked0 Colorful Grid Accent 6;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority19 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority21 \lsdlocked0 Intense Emphasis;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority31 \lsdlocked0 Subtle Reference;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority32 \lsdlocked0 Intense Reference;\lsdsemihidden0 \lsdunhideused0 \lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority33 \lsdlocked0 Book Title;\lsdpriority37 \lsdlocked0 Bibliography;\lsdqformat1 \lsdpriority39 \lsdlocked0 TOC Heading;}}{\*\datastore 010001000200000010000000584d4c2e5341585265616465722e3500000000000000000000060000d0cf11e0a1b11ae1000000000000000000000000000000003e000300feff090006000000000000000000000001000000010000000000000000100000feffffff00000000feffffff0000000000000000fffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffdfffffffeffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff5200000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000002000500ffffffffffffffffffffffffec69d9888b8b3d4c859eaf6cd158be0f00000000000000000000000062e1044a1b06cd01feffffff00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000ffffffffffffffffffffffff0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000100010000000000}}