How much philosophy in the philosophy of science? I will show that for
probability kinematics (the question how observations change rational
probability assessments) the majority view of philosophers can be
undermined in favour of the majority view of statistical physicists.
At issue is what I am calling the full employment theorem in
probability kinematics (FET). It states that in order to reassess a
probability distribution in the light of new evidence one needs a
trained epistemologist to apply situation-appropriate tools from a
wide range of methods in a pluralistically arranged toolbox.

FET may not be false, but, more weakly, the main avenues of argument
for FET fail. The converse of FET states that there are formal methods
we can successfully apply to all cases in which a probability
assessment needs to be adjusted in view of new evidence, without the
need for a case-by-case interpretation by an epistemological expert.
Advocates of FET usually present counterexamples, predominantly Bas
van Fraassen's Judy Benjamin problem (often this will be their only
counterexample). It produces under the application of the formal
method counterintuitive results. Therefore, so goes the reasoning, the
universal claim of the opponents fails and FET stands.

If your observation comes in the form of an event, a plausible way to
update your probabilities is by conditioning. If your observation
comes in the form of a redistribution of probabilities over a
partition of the event space, it's plausible to use Jeffrey
conditioning. Observation can be even more general and come in the
form of affine constraints (the Judy Benjamin problem is a simple
example). If Jeffrey conditioning cannot be applied to an affine
constraint, we can use the principle of maximum entropy, based on the
intuition that the observation should minimally affect the
probabilities without being inconsistent with it. Some say that the
principle of maximum entropy delivers the unique solution to this
problem fulfilling a set of basic rationality requirements. Advocates
of FET believe that the principle of maximum entropy is only one of
many different strategies to update probabilities rationally,
depending on individual cases. They cite the Judy Benjamin problem to
undermine the generality of the principle of maximum entropy.

I will show various ways in which their arguments go awry. The results
provided by the principle of maximum entropy for the Judy Benjamin
problem are supported, not contradicted, by an intuitive approach that
prima facie should support the advocates of FET. The independence
assumptions which render the results counterintuitive are improperly
applied by advocates of FET (in particular, they do not make the Judy
Benjamin problem a case for Jeffrey conditioning). The method of
coarsening at random does not apply to the Judy Benjamin problem once
the analogy to the Three Prisoners problem is fully appreciated. In
conclusion, the philosophers have not made a persuasive case for full
employment. Scientists who use the principle of maximum entropy (whose
applications span a variety of disciplines) can do so without worry
about this instance of "philosophy in the philosophy of science."
."
yment theorem. The independence assumptions which render the results counterintuitive are improperly applied by advocates of the FET (in particular, they do not make the Judy Benjamin problem a case for Jeffrey conditioning, as claimed by Igor Douven and Jan-Willem Romeijn). Peter Gr√ºnwald and Joseph Halpern's method of coarsening at random does not apply to the Judy Benjamin problem once the analogy to the Three Prisoners problem is fully appreciated.

In conclusion, the philosophers have not made a persuasive case for full employment. Scientists who use the principle of maximum entropy (whose applications span a surprising variety of disciplines) can do so without too much worry about this particular instance of "philosophy in the philosophy of science."
y of science."
d and Joseph Halpern's
method of coarsening at random does not apply to the Judy Benjamin
problem once the analogy to the Three Prisoners problem is fully
appreciated.

In conclusion, the philosophers have not made a persuasive case for
full employment. Scientists who use the PME (whose applications span a
surprising variety of disciplines) can do so without too much worry
about this particular instance of "philosophy in the philosophy of
science."
."
