The Full Employment Theorem in Probability Kinematics

The aim is to undermine the full employment theorem in probability
kinematics, which is widely assumed to be true. Imagine you have a
fully quantified probability assessment of a situation, and then you
make an observation. If your observation comes in the form of an
event, a plausible way to update your probabilities is by
conditioning. If your observation comes in the form of a
redistribution of probabilities over a partition of the event space (a
more general type of evidence), it's plausible to use Jeffrey
conditioning. Observation can be even more general, so that all you
observe is what's called an affine constraint. If Jeffrey conditioning
cannot be applied to an affine constraint, we can use the principle of
maximum entropy (PME), based on the intuition that the observation
should minimally affect your probabilities without being inconsistent
with it.

There are some (very few philosophers, more statistical physicists)
who say that the PME delivers the unique solution to this problem
which fulfills some basic rationality requirements. Opponents of this
approach (a majority view among philosophers) believe in something I
am calling the full employment theorem for probability kinematics. In
their view, the PME is only one of many different strategies to update
your probabilities, and to decide which strategy is the most
appropriate you need a resident formal epistemologist to do the
thinking and weigh the intuitions for you, for a fee, of course (thus
formal epistemologists will always be fully employed; there is an
analogous full employment theory in computer science about writing
computer programs which has been formally proved to be true).

Opponents of objective methods prominently cite van Fraassen's Judy
Benjamin case to undermine the generality of the PME. I will show that
the results provided by the PME are supported by an intuitive approach
that prima facie should support the opponents. The independence
assumptions which render the results counterintuitive are improperly
applied by opponents. We'll also do some ``coarsening at random'' so
make sure you bring the proper gear (employ your imagination).
